Pakistan has marked a historic moment with the launch of iCube Qamar, its maiden satellite mission to the moon, aboard China’s Chang’E6 from Hainan. The satellite, developed in collaboration with the Institute of Space Technology (IST), SUPARCO, and Shanghai University, will enter lunar orbit in five days, capturing surface imagery for scientific purposes during its three to six-month stay. Integrated successfully into Chang’e6, iCube-Q carries two optical cameras to photograph the lunar surface, contributing to China’s lunar exploration mission, which aims to collect and study surface samples from the moon’s far side. Pakistan has achieved a historic milestone with the launch of iCube Qamar, the country’s first satellite mission to the moon, from Hainan, China, on China’s Chang’E6. The Institute of Space Technology (IST) website and Chinese state television carried live coverage of the event. According to Dr. Khurram Khurshid, a member of the Institute of Space Technology’s (IST) Core Committee, Pakistan’s satellite, which is being transported by China’s Long March-5 rocket, would enter lunar orbit in five days and stay there for three to six months. He said that various satellite photos of the moon’s surface will be obtained, and Pakistan will then have access to its own satellite imagery of the moon for scientific purposes. The IST planned and produced the satellite in partnership with Pakistan’s national space agency, SUPARCO, and China’s Shanghai University. Two optical cameras are carried by the ICUBE-Q orbiter to take pictures of the lunar surface. ICUBE-Q has now been successfully integrated into the Chang’e6 mission after qualification and testing. China’s lunar exploration mission, Chang’e 6, is the sixth in the series. Chang’6, China’s Lunar Mission, will land on the moon’s far side in order to gather surface samples and transport them back to Earth for more study. The mission is significant for Pakistan since it will also transport a Pakistan CubeSat satellite, iCube-Q, created by IST. CubeSats are primarily designed to enable scientific study, technological development, and educational activities in space exploration. The Balochis­tan Assembly on Monday passed a resolution to form a special committee of the… Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Jiang Zaidong celebrated the 73rd anniversary of China-Pakistan diplomatic relations … Pakistan-China Institute has developed this CPEC Portal as its flagship project, in collaboration with China Radio International, to disseminate information about, and enable stakeholder connectivity with, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.