The faculty of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) includes a diverse and highly qualified team of experts.

Raees Fida Swati, the Head of the Department and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD in Structural Design of Flight Vehicles from the School of Astronautics at Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an, China. His specialization lies in Structural Design & Analysis, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Ihtizaz Qamar, a Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his PhD and MS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh, USA. His areas of specialization are Propulsion Systems and Computational Engineering.

Jamshed Riaz, an Adjunct Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD and MS in Flight Mechanics from the Georgia Institute of Technology, USA. His expertise includes Flight Mechanics and Automatic Control.

Muhammad Naeem, a Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MSc in Aerospace Propulsion and PhD in Aircraft Propulsion from Cranfield University, UK. His specialization is in Gas Turbines Performance (Modelling & Simulation).

Gohar Majeed, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Aerospace Engineering from Iowa State University, USA, and an MS in Engineering Management from CASE, Islamabad, Pakistan. His areas of specialization include Aerospace Structures, Mechanics of Composite Materials, Damage Tolerance Analysis, and Finite Element Modelling and Analysis.

Hayat Muhammad Khan, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his PhD in Automation and Robotics from Northwestern Polytechnical University, China, and an MS in Control Systems from the University of Toulouse (UPS), France. He specializes in Controls, Automation, and Robotics.

Mariyam Sattar, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD from Beihang University, China. Her area of specialization is Solid Mechanics, and she is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Muhammad Wasim, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his PhD in Electrical Engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology Taxila, Pakistan. His specialization is in Control Systems.

Saad Rifat Qurashi, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Dayton, OHIO, USA. His area of expertise is Fluid Dynamics.

Izhar Hussain Kazmi, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his M.Phil in Fluid Dynamics from ENSHM, INPG, France. He specializes in Fluid Dynamics.

Umer Sohail, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD in Aerospace Engineering with a focus on Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Turbomachinery, Machine Learning, and Artificial Neural Networks from the Institute of Space Technology. He also holds an MS in Mechanical Engineering (Power) from Mirpur University of Science and Technology, and an MBA (Executive) from Allama Iqbal Open University. His specialization is in Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), Turbomachinery, Machine Learning, and Artificial Neural Networks.

Asad Mehmood, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Experimental Aerodynamics and Renewable Energy.

Sajid Hussain, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MS in Mechatronics Engineering from the National University of Sciences and Technology, Pakistan. His specialization is in Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS).

Shuja Ur Rehman, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Aerospace Engineering from Northwestern Polytechnical University, China. His area of specialization is Aero Vehicle Design.

Muhammad Jahanzeb Zia, a Senior Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BSc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, and his MS in Mechanical Engineering from the National University of Science and Technology, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnostics of Mechanical Systems, Vibration Analysis, and Balancing of Turbomachinery.

Fatima Hira, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Engineering Management from Capital University of Science and Technology and a BS in Engineering Sciences (Simulation and Modeling) from Ghulam Ishaq Khan University of Science and Technology. Her specialization is in Engineering Management.

Muhammad Shaazil Atique, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His area of specialization is Computational Fluid Dynamics.

Muhammad Usama Saeed, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His specialization is in Aerodynamic Design & Analysis.

Muhammad Yaseen, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His area of specialization is Aerospace Vehicle Design.

Rida Jabbar, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. Her specialization is in Structural Design & Analysis.

Syed Amber Ali Shah, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Computer Vision and Aerodynamics.

Khurram Shehzad, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MSc in Mechanical Engineering (Applied Mechanics and Design) and a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Engineering & Technology Taxila. His specialization includes Applied Dynamics, Vibration, and Balancing of Turbomachinery.

Muhammad Adnan Khan, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MS in Physics from COMSATS University Islamabad, MSc in Physics from the University of Sargodha, and BSc in Physics from Govt. College Jhang. His areas of specialization are Numerical Simulation of Vacuum Systems and Rarefied Simulation.

Muhammad Ammar Roohani, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Engineering & Technology Taxila, Pakistan. His specialization is in Maintenance/Reliability Engineering.

Sannan Salabat Butt, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MS in Chemical Engineering from the National University of Sciences & Technology, Islamabad, and his BSc in Chemical Engineering from the University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore. His areas of specialization include Heat Transfer and Refrigeration.





