It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you all to the official website of IBCC which has been revamped on the directions of Federal Minister for Education & Professional Trainings to enhance service and quick response to public. The technology based assessment to make examination system more efficient, transparent & reliable is our top priority because we understand that quality of assessment plays important role in the process of teaching and learning. The continuous up-gradation of our evaluation system on modern lines to bring therein transparency, credibility and fairness is main agenda of IBCC. The IBCC team is working hard to offer better service delivery by introducing intelligence & smartness in all internal & external processes; whereas an effective complaint redressal system through UAN, emails & social media has also been developed. DR. GHULAM ALI MALLAH Executive Director Prof. Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah is an eminent scholar of international level in Computer Science currently working as Executive Director, IBCC Islamabad. Previously, Dr. Mallah was the Professor & Head of Computer Sciences in the Shah Abdul Latif University, Khairpur. Dr. Mallah acquired his Master’s degree from Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad, and Ph.D. in Computer Science through HEC Indigenous Scholarship from FAST-Karachi & SALU Khairpur. Dr. Mallah also achieved Post-doctorate in Educational Technology & Academic Leadership from Glasgow University, Scotland, UK. He has more than 45 articles at his credit, having recognition nationally & internationally. He has also supervised more than 100 BS/MS/Ph.D. projects. Dr. Mallah is the winner of 04 HEC-Funded R&D projects. Dr. Mallah joined SALU in 1996 where he accomplished various administrative assignments for the advancement of S.A.L.U. in the capacity of Chairman Department of Computer Science, Focal Person Women University Sukkur, Focal Person International Linkages & Exchange Programs, Chairman Department of Teacher Education, Advisor to Vice Chancellor for Planning & Development, Director P&D, Director Computerized Students Attendance Cell, and Network Administrator, etc. Dr. Mallah was a brilliant inclusion in the field of Education, who won the Indigenous Ph.D. Scholarship, “ICT Excellence Award 2012” in the category of “IT Education”. He is the organizer of FOUR consecutive International Conferences on Computer & Emerging Technologies and ONE International Conference on Research in Education & Technologies 2017. He is a pioneer of the Department of Teacher Education and Faculty of Education, the projects of USAID. He has vast experience of working with HEC, British Council, USAID, United States Education Foundation, etc. He is actively involved in various national & international professional bodies for Quality Assurance in HEIs, Curriculum Designing, Accreditations, Tertiary Education Support programs, Development of Strategic & Business Plans for HEIs, International Linkages, etc. In view of the above credible history of the Officer, his inclusion as Executive Director IBCC shall be a way forward for more improvement and betterment of IBCC, both academically and administratively. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361