The major principle for equivalence of qualification is to identify the relevant stage in the Pakistani System by considering the number of schooling years and subjects of a foreign system if the system does not match with the Pakistani model. A) GCSE/IGCSE/GCE ‘O’ Levels: B) GCE A-Levels: The International Baccalaureate (IB), formerly the International Baccalaureate Organization (IBO), is an International Educational Foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. Founded in 1968 in Geneva, IB offers three educational programmers for children ages 3-19. International Baccalaureate (IB) Programme: IBCC considers IB Middle Years Programme (MYP) and IB Diploma Programme (DP) from Geneva, Switzerland equivalent to SSC and HSSC (relevant group) of Pakistan, respectively. Conversion for Equivalence Middle Years Programme (MYP): International Baccalaureate Middle Years Program (MYP) (with the minimum of five academic subjects including English and Mathematics) from external examining body Geneva, Switzerland is equivalent to SSC (relevant group) of Pakistan. Conversion of MYP into Secondary School Equivalent Certificate Diploma Programme (DP) The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (DP) with a minimum of five required subjects from external Examining body Geneva, Switzerland is equivalent to HSSC (relevant group) of Pakistan. Conversion of IB Diploma into Higher Secondary School Equivalent Certificate Conversion of International Baccalaureate Career-related programme into Higher Secondary School Equivalent Certificate (Relevant Group) The Certificate of the Career-related Programme will be awarded subject to the satisfactory completion of the following requirements by a candidate: The completion of the career-related study is the basic requirement for the issuance of an equivalence certificate in addition to the completion of other requirements. The IBCC will equate the grading of DP courses passed in the Career-related Programme as per the approved formula available on the IBCC website (Same as for the IB Diploma). The candidate has to pass at least two for (Humanities Group) and Three for (Pre-Medical/Pre-Engineering Group) of the Higher level Diploma Programme Courses in grade 3 or more. The IBCC will equate the grading of the Reflective project only to at least a D for the reflective project. The other core subjects i.e: Personal and Professional skills, Service training and Language development are internally assessed by the school so only completion is the basic requirement for issuance of an equivalence certificate. I) IBCC only considers IB Diploma comprising six subject groups and the Diploma Programme (DP) core, comprising Theory of Knowledge (TOK), Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) and the extended essay equivalent to grade 12/HSSC (relevant group) and IBCC doesn’t consider IB certificate as equivalent to HSSC. II) All Pakistani nationals appearing for examinations from Pakistan shall have to pass Urdu, Islamiyat and Pakistan studies along with other required subjects to qualify for equivalence. III) The Equivalence Committee resolved to approve the career related program offered by International Baccalaureate (IBO) in Science subjects for issuance of Equivalence Certificate of HSSC (Pre-Medical/Pre-Engineering Group) of Pakistan. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email equivalence@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361