The issue of ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students whose results are due to be announced on 11th January 2021 and require equivalence to be issued by IBCC before 19th January 2021, being the last date to apply for admissions to medical colleges, was raised by the Pakistan Medical Commission with the Government of Pakistan and IBCC. To alleviate the concerns of the ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students and provide maximum facility to them, the Federal Minister for Education Mr. Shafqat Mahmood and SAPM Health Dr Faisal Sultan immediately requested IBCC to take urgent steps in consultation with the Pakistan Medical Commission to assist the students and ensure that they are able to apply for their medical college admissions. An emergent meeting was held between Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah (Secretary IBCC) and Muhammad Ali Raza (Vice President PMC) at PMC Head office on 30th December 2020 to address the issue of ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students. The Secretary IBCC briefed on the recent approved policy of IBCC that provisional equivalence would be issued after verification of online results to facilitate ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students for applying to medical & professional colleges. IBCC, has announced an expedited special policy on the directions of the Federal Minister for Education, endorsed by Steering Committee of IBCC, to collect application from students appeared in ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level examination from 31st December, 2020. Such students are required to submit their application through TCS or they will also be accommodated through walk-in mode by observing the SOPs adopted to cope with COVID-19 pandemic. The walk-in mode of service will be resumed till January 30, 2021. The candidates will require to submit original and attested copies of ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level certificates passed before November 2020 and Statement of Entry of November, 2020 Examination. The candidates will also require to submit an affidavit that in case of any alteration with the results or documents IBCC reserves the right to take action in the light of IBCC regulations. After receipt of online results, IBCC will prepare provisional equivalence within three days which can be collected from IBCC (Head Office) Islamabad or its regional offices of Bahawalpur, Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta. IBCC will also send the provisional equivalence by e-mail to the candidates to facilitate in timely admission process. Click on the image to download. to download. to view details. to view details. IBCC has officially designated the TCS Courier to facilitate the domestic attestation/equivalence seekers for getting attestation/equivalence of educational documents from all over Pakistan. In this regard, the applicants will hand over the application form, required documents and attestation/equivalence fee along with courier service charges at respective centres of Courier Service for the purpose of attestation/equivalence. The courier company would be responsible for returning the submitted documents back to the applicants at their specified/given addresses. Human life is a combination of continuous struggle and only those who mark them on the everlasting pages of history put their heart and soul to achieve their goals. When comes to the field of education, its importance can’t be denied. Education for a normal person in society is not a big deal… But today we are talking about a courageous boy, Zain-ul-Abdin who is a symbol of great determination. A child of high resolution who did not take his disability as a hurdle in the way of his education. Physically he may be disabled, but his mind is as sharp as all of us, maybe sharper than all of us. His wit is well complimented by his courage and determination to prove a point that disability is abstract, his will to excel in life is concrete. IBCC appreciates the Gemstone of our society. IBCC salutes all those efforts done by the child to attain knowledge and a prominent position in society… IBCC wholeheartedly lauds the efforts of the Muzaffarabad Board also in helping Zain-ul-Abdin to make his dream come true and showing the fact to society that disability is not a hurdle in leading a graceful and honourable life… Process time of IBCC Attestation All the candidates, who approach the IBCC for authentication of their documents, are requested to please follow the instructions and produce or collect documents on turn. A proper mechanism has been operating for service delivery and check & balance, even then, if there is any complaint, it’s adressal system is vigilant. Moreover, proper drinking water and protection from weather’s hardness is fairly arranged. The only expectation of IBCC is cooperation with its deployed staff. We believe in sincere service delivery fairly. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361