IBCC Officers/Staff E-Office training session arranged by IT Section in collaboration with NITB to make use of modern technology to expedite the office affairs at IBCC Secretariat. Secretary IBCC also attended the training session and said that the adoption of digital system would eliminate outdated office system and the new... A meeting of IBCC and Tech-Valley held at IBCC Secretariat. Secretary IBCC, Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah chaired the meeting and Mr. Umar Farooq, CEO Tech-Valley give presentation on Google for Education, Google Workspace and Chrome Book. Both the organization discussed and share new ideas which will help the education system... A meeting of provincial heads of BCCs held today at IBCC Secretariat to discuss Anomalies on Promotion Policy for Examination 2021. On the directives of Federal Minister for Education & Professional Training Mr. Shafqat Mahmood, an important meeting of IBCC IT & Equivalence Team was held at IBCC Secretariat to launch e-Office & e-Filing system at IBCC Secretariat. The meeting was chaired by Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC. Dr. Mallah... A letter shown to be under signatures of the Secretary Exams regarding Class 9 & 11 promotion policy is lurking in social media. In this regard, it is officially clarified that no such letter was issued by the IBCC neither we have a position of secretary exam at IBCC. It... It has been noticed that some individuals posing themselves as “agents” of IBCC are offering services to get equivalence certificates and attestation of documents from IBCC. These individuals are also cheating the applicants by pasting fake IBCC Stamps/Tickets on original certificates. All such activities are criminal and such certificates shall... An online meeting was held on Tuesday, June 22, 2021, to discuss the Digitization of BISEs of Pakistan for Electronic Verification of Records of SSC & HSSC. Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC, Dr. Mirza Habib, Chairman BISE Lahore, Rana Muhammad Khawar Deputy Director IBCC, and representatives of BIE Karachi,... A meeting of the IBCC National Steering Committee (NSC) held at IBCC Islamabad to discuss the policy of SSC & HSSC examination 2021 and COVID SOPs to be followed by invigilation staff and students during the conduct of the examination. A weekly meeting of IBCC officers, chaired by Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC, was held at IBCC Secretariat. In this meeting, it was decided that the Walk-in Mode of Attestation & Equivalence has been resumed at IBCC Islamabad, and its Regional Offices with effect from June 8, 2021. Applicants... Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361