The Inter Boards Committee of Chairmen is hereby re-constituted and re-structured as the Inter Boards Coordination Commission to act and deal with the issues relating to the standardization of examination, assessment, evaluation and allied matters connected there to at secondary and higher secondary school levels through coordination along with recognition of local and foreign qualifications. The IBCC was set up at Federal Level in 1972 with the responsibilities to exchange information among the members Boards on all aspects of Intermediate and Secondary Education in order to achieve a fair measure of uniformity of academic evaluation and curricular standards and to promote curricular and extra-curricular activities on Inter Board basis including to serve as a forum of discussion and consultation for the chief executives of the Boards on all matters relating to the development and promotion of Intermediate and Secondary Education, and to make suitable recommendations to the Government. It is also obligatory for IBCC to advise on and facilitate the exchange of teachers and students including perform such other functions as may be incidental or conducive to the attainment of the objectives, besides authentication of Educational documents issued by the recognized examining bodies and equivalence of foreign qualification up-to Higher Secondary level. In a proactive move towards enhancing educational infrastructure, the Federal Secretary Mr. Mohyuddin Ahmad Wani, recently visited Islamabad Girls Middle School G-6/2 to oversee ongoing renovation and improvements in facilities supported by IBCC. This initiative underscores the government's commitment to providing conducive learning environments for students across the country. Executive Director IBCC, Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah visited IBCC Regional Office Lahore On Wednesday April 17, 2024. During the visit he observed the facilities and services provided to the public. Executive Director IBCC Dr Mallah attended meeting on 15 April held with all HODs and Officers of Ministry Chaired by Federal Secretary Education regarding PM’s Special Initiatives on Education. MoU with General Post Office to use their services The Executive Director of IBCC called a meeting of IT staff and officially launched IBCC’s 100-Day Plan to improve education in line with the Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training's vision. IBCC is planning to enhance the Equivalence Portal, streamline administrative processes, and boost educator training programs. Prof. Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Executive Director IBCC, participated as the chief guest at the recognition day event held at Islamabad Convent School H-8/4 on March 27, 2024. Commendation to the Ministry of Federal Education & Professional Training for orchestrating a remarkable event on International Education Day! IBCC extends heartfelt congratulations for promoting the power of education and fostering global awareness. Two-day 178th meeting of IBCC Forum started in Islamabad (Feb 26-27). Chief Executives of all exam boards, Curriculum Councils, Textbook Boards, Technical Boards, Commissioners attending the meeting to discuss Annual Exam & Assessment plan for the upcoming academic session. Former Vice Chancellor AIOU Dr Nazir Sangi, Sqdn Leader Imran Mahesar, Dr Hakim Buriro visited IBCC and met Executive Director Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah Minister of Federal Education & Professional Training visited IBCC Regional Office Karachi Mr Saidjon Shafiev, Deputy Head of Mission Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan visited IBCC Secretariat, Islamabad and had a meeting with Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Executive Director IBCC. During his visit, he was given a comprehensive briefing by Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, the Executive Director of IBCC, shedding light on the organization's vital mandate, functions, roles, and responsibilities. The minister assured his support for the ongoing initiatives and reforms introduced by IBCC, underscoring the government's determination to foster... First-ever meeting of BoG, Inter Boards Coordination Commission (IBCC) held at Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training, chaired by Federal Secretary/ Chairman BoG. The Counsel General of Sudan Embassy in Pakistan visited the IBCC Secretariat and met with the Secretary IBCC to discuss the equivalence of Sudanese qualifications and opportunities for Sudanese students. Secretary IBCC Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah meeting with Ben, Director of American Qualifications Asia in Thailand - Dr. Mallah presented the annual report and shield of IBCC to Ben and presented him with a beautiful gift of Sindhi Ajrak. Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC Islamabad, along with Muhammad Usman, Director IBCC, met HE Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry, High Commissioner of Pakistan for Australia, at Canberra and discussed multiple initiatives taken for the facilitation of local and overseas students. The equivalence of Pakistani-Australian Secondary & Senior Secondary level Qualifications &... Secretary IBCC, Prof Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah participated as Chief Guest in the Annual Function of AIMS Schools and Colleges, Barakahu, Islamabad and distributed awards amongst position holders. Mr. Amir Zeb, Director of Training at Association of Academic Quality (AFAQ) visited IBCC Secretariat, Islamabad and had a meeting with Secretary IBCC. Dr. Shaista Sohail, Executive Director, Higher Education Commission (HEC), Dr. Fouzia Tanveer Sheikh, Principal Islamabad Model College for Girls F-7/2, Islamabad and Mr. Azam Habib, Entrepreneur visited IBCC Secretariat, Islamabad. Prof Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah presented IBCC Annual Report 2022 to the honourable guests. Mr. Faisal Mahmood, the Country Director of TCL Global, (an esteemed education counselling centre, providing comprehensive guidance and support to students who aspire to pursue higher education opportunities in local and international institutions) paid a visit to the Inter Board Committee of Chairmen (IBCC) and met with Prof. Dr. Ghulam... Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361 Please choose any of the following recommended courier service provider for sending your application: Documents sent through any other service will not be accepted.