BiCoNeS lab at the Institute of Space Technology is looking for a GRA for the collection and processing of data from hand muscles for our ‘Brain-controlled Prosthetic Hand’ project. The GRA would be part of a diverse team from various departments at the Institute of Space Technology and would work in a very dynamic and progressive environment. The details about the requirements and salary of the GRA is as follows: Qualification: At least undergrad in Electrical Engineering or in any other relevant field. Required Technical Skills: Machine learning/AI. Candidates with strong communication and technical writing skills would be given preference. Salary: Rs. 40k per month. No other benefits would be provided. Brief details of the project along with short videos are available at: Interested candidates should email me at or send a message on Linkedin till October 21, 2021. Thank you. Do you want to work on Industrial AI Project? Do you want to learn the challenges of dealing with real-world data? Do you want to see how to strike balance between research and project development? ​ We at iVision lab, Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, are creating a remote sensing application for satellite images. We have multiple opportunities for12-weeks internship. Required Skills: Pursuing Bachelors or Masters degree in CS or CE major, or extensive CSE coursework. Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior or Graduate student In-depth expertise in deep learning (DL) and statistical machine learning (ML) Knowledge of common AI Frameworks such as Tensorflow, Pytorch, and Keras Passionate about building extraordinary products Creative, collaborative, & product focused Preferred Skills: Excellent programming skills in Python, CUDA or other GPGPU and knowledge of QGIS is a plus You will have also a chance to learn directly from AI experts and Coursera Deeplearning.ai mentor. The passionate candidates are encouraged to send their resume and motivation letter to and We have vacancies against two funded projects related to machine learning and computer vision that need to be filled urgently. Both the projects are of one-year duration and they will finish on 30 June 2021. The work will involve development for end-user as well as research paper writing. These will be carried out at iVISION Lab, Institute of Space Technology. ​ Positions and Skill requirement: ​ Each project has two positions. ​ 1. Expert engineer: BE/BS or MS in related fields, should have strong programming skills in Python or C++, should have good knowledge of signal and image processing and machine learning. Must have experience of machine learning tools such as tensor flow, Pytorch etc. Good writing skills are required and previous track record of publications will be a plus. Rs 40k-55k per month will be paid depending on skill set. ​ 2. MS/PhD student: Student should have already done related course work and may use this works as his/her thesis, will be paid 10-15k per month depending on skillset. ​ Projects and Application Procedure: ​ 1. First Project (Processing and Classification of Satellite Imagery using Machine Learning) In this project, automated software for processing and classification of satellite imagery using machine learning will be developed. This has applications in remote sensing where different types of ground features need to be identified for land cover classification. Interested applicants should send their CVs to Dr. Farrukh Bhatti ​ 2. Second Project (Anomaly detection using machine learning and air-borne hyper-spectral sensing) In this project, algorithms for anomaly detection will be developed using machine learning and while utilizing hyper-spectral data from airborne sensors. Anomaly detection in the region of interest has several applications in geologic and urban use cases. Interested applicants should send their CVs to Dr. Abdur Rahman Maud Application Deadline: 01 May 2019 (Closed) ​ Salary: Rs 40,000 monthly. ​ Skills requirement: Strong programming skills in Python or C++, good knowledge of signal/image processing and machine learning. ​ Interested applicants should send their CVs to ​ Position # 1 ​ Description: The research assistant will be required to work with a real-time stream of video data and perform machine learning tasks such as object detection and classification. Duration: Six months (extendable depending on performance) ​ Position # 2 ​ Description: The research assistant will be required to develop a computer vision-based system inspection of different parts. ​ Duration: Six months