China Association of Science and Technology (CAST) and Ministry of Science and Technology, China, in collaboration with Ministry of Science and Technology, Pakistan, National Center of GIS and Space Applications, Institute of Space Technology, Pakistan Science Foundation, and ECO Science Foundation are organising The Belt and Road Teenager Space Maker Camp. In Phase-1 of this Space Makers Camp, the teenager participants (12 -18 years) will compete by developing the cubesat using the materials of their own choice. NCGSA aspires to engage the resourceful youth of Pakistan in contributing towards space technology for the socio-economic development of Pakistan. The participants of Space Maker Camp are expected to depict the technical knowledge and understanding for design, development, and production of cube satellite and to compete with international community. The Space Maker Camp would consist of following three phases: The participants will develop a CubeSat according to the instructions and learning material available on the following link and finally will upload the video by Sunday, October 31, 2021. Link: The participants will also learn from the mentors and series of online lectures, conducted by NCGSA. CubeSats are built to standard dimensions (Units or “U”) of 10cm x 10cm x 10cm. With a modular structure, CubeSats expand along one axis or multiple axes in units to form a 2U, 3U or even larger structure. For the purpose of this preselection, the maximum size of the CubeSat model shall not exceed 12U. The requirements on the use of materials are set out below: Engineering notes should be mainly text, and may include some diagrams as appropriate. Contestants may type engineering notes into an electronic document or write them by hand. In the latter case, the notes should be photographed or scanned to create a pdf file (with suffix being “.pdf”). The engineering notes should contain the following elements: Name of Work: the name of work should be reflective of the function and type of the CubeSat model, such as “CubeSat solution for communication in unmanned areas of the Nafud Desert, or “Remote-sensing CubeSat solution for monitoring the changes of Arctic glaciers”. Functional Description: to clearly describe the application scenarios and functions of the CubeSat designed. Design Drawing: it is suggested that contestants present the exterior of the CubeSat in the form of a three-view drawing, and add words to describe important parts if necessary. Structural Design: contestants should clearly depict the structures of the CubeSat model through pictures and explanatory notes. The structure drawing can be hand-drawn or computer-drawn. Materials Used: contestants should make a list of materials used to build the CubeSat model. Building Processes: contestants may record the entire building processes by words or the combination of pictures and words. Key Technologies: please describe in the engineering notes whether the work uses some key technologies. The video should be in AVI, MOV or MP4 format, with size and length not exceeding 500 Mb and 10 minutes, respectively. The video shall be clear. The soundtrack, subtitles and footage should be kept in sync with no obvious noise. The voiceover shall be in English and have good sound quality. There shall be no errors in the subtitles. The video should include six parts: self-introduction or team introduction; process of theme research; process of work design; process of work building; structures and functions of the finished work; self-summary. There is no restriction with regard to the form of video presentation, yet it should to be easily understood by the viewer. There is no registration fee Submission Method Submission will be made via the online portal. Contestants must upload their project notes and work presentation videos to the official website according to the relevant requirements. The work submitted should include engineering notes and a video. Each team can only submit one work for the preselection. Each team should submit original works and avoid similar designs. Requirements for Submission Contestants should uniformly name their engineering notes and videos in the format of “country + region + team name + work name (engineering notes / video)” before uploading their works to . In the second phase of the camp, NCGSA will conduct an online quiz for selection of top 30 participants to participate in face to face all Pakistan Space Makers Camp to design, develop and launch the CubeSat. Teams will be developed and mentored by the experts Face to Face competition will be held for design of satellites. The Space Maker Camp is focused to explore the paradigm of CubeSat technology and applications for the socio-economic development. Centering around the resolution of environmental issues (including but not limited to vegetation mutation, air pollution, glacier melting, etc.), social issues (including but not limited to post-disaster reconstruction, the impact of the COVID 19 pandemic, etc.) and economic development issues (including but not limited to urban development, rural development, urban-rural differences, etc.) that are of major concern to the international community, contestants are required to devise a CubeSat model with both appropriate functions and appealing look. Contestants can sign up as an individual or as a team. Each team shall have no more than three members, and there must be at least one instructor who shall be an adult over 18 years old. Parents can also serve as the instructor. The age of the contestant should be 12-18 years old, calculated based on the Gregorian calendar, i.e., the contestant must be born between September 1, 2003 and September 1, 2009. Registration for Mentoring & Training Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.