NCGSA has a provision of research fund of PKR 200 Million. The fund will cater for conducting research activities in the field of Space Science, Technology and Applications, particularly the Geographic Information Science (GISc.). This funding opportunity aims at fostering the transition from research and technology to integration and business. This shall help new space products, processes and solutions to reach the market. NCGSA invites research proposals from faculty members & researchers of Higher Education Institutions and Research & Development organizations of Pakistan. The research proposals should focus on sustainable socio-economic development of Pakistan through Space Science, Technology and its Applications. The key parameter for research fund award shall be the relevance of research proposals with Space Science, Technology and Applications, particularly the Geographic Information Science. Proposals shall be welcomed in all domains of GIS and Space Applications, however the proposals having significant overlap with the domains / outputs already being covered under the current PC-1 through NCGSA affiliated labs will not be considered for the research fund. To outstand, the proposal should have clearly defined solution-oriented outcomes and outputs. Furthermore, the proposals with strong industrial and developmental partnerships will be preferred. Research Grants will be provided on competitive basis in the following major domains (but not limited to) resulting in sustainable products / applications / prototypes / solutions with potential of commercialization and leading to contributions in the socio-economic development of Pakistan. Applicant must be full time faculty member of Public/Private Higher Education Institution or Researcher of R&D Organization of Pakistan. The proposals should be academia-industry joint projects leading towards sustainable socio-economic growth. Preference will be given to the proposals having the Principal Investigator(PI) from academia and Co-PI (collaboration) with public/private industry or R&D organizations. a. Duration: Two years (24 Months) Maximum b. Award Value: Up to 15.00 Million PKR Proposals for funding should be submitted by filling out the form provided in the package below. Package Includes: Download the NCGSA Research Fund proposal form and allied documents Complete research proposals must reach NCGSA Secretariat through all of the following platforms by April 29, 2021: 1. 2. Email complete Application at researchfund@ncgsa.org.pk; ncgsa@ist.edu.pk3. Send Hardcopy to NCGSA Secretariat on the following postal address: Phone: +92-51-9075799