University of Peshawar Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University, Sheringal, Dir Pakistan is located in one of the most tectonically and seismically active regions around the world. Challenges induced by the active tectonic are frequent geohazards including landslides and earthquakes, with significant human and economic losses. Nevertheless, Pakistan is blessed with precious mineral resources with significant potential to enhance the socio-economic conditions of the country. However, given the lack of modern technology, most of the mineral resources located in the rough terrain and inaccessible areas, have remained unexplored. Water and forests are the critical natural resource of Pakistan. Characterization and temporal monitoring of the water and forest resources can assist for their categorization and sustainable utilization. The G-SAG lab aims to utilize the advanced GIS techniques and remote sensing data supported with the in-situ data for geosciences applications with specific focus on geohazards, geological applications, forests and water resources. The centers envisaged the development in futuristic areas that are of strategic national importance, economic benefit and for the creation of knowledge economy and scientific leadership. In this regard HEC proposes the establishment of the National Centre of GIS & Space Applications and National Centre of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology. Considering the national needs and research priorities, the following application domains are selected by the G-SAG lab. Domain 1 – Geohazards The G-SAG aims to utilize the advanced GIS techniques, space and air-borne remote sensing and field measurements to assess and evaluate the landslides induced susceptibility, hazard, vulnerability and risk assessment; and seismic micro-zonation maps. Domain 2 – Geological Applications The G-SAG plans to apply space and air-borne hyperspectral images and image interpretation techniques for the seamless mapping of lithological units and demarcation and characterization of the mineral zones. Domain 3 – Water Resource Dynamics To evaluate the influence of various components of the hydrological cycle on water resources dynamics. Domain 4 – Forest Resource Assessment Applying and development of space and air-borne remote sensing methods for the assessment, characterization, and change detection of forest resources. No Poverty Zero Hunger Life Below Water