National CanSat Competition 2024 is an initiative of Space Education Research Lab (SERL) of National Center of GIS & Space Applications (NCGSA), Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, Pakistan. It aims for Space Technology Education and Popularization (STEP) through STEM education by design, development & launch of student satellite, the CanSat. A CanSat is a simulation of a real satellite, which is designed and integrated within the size and shape of a soda can. The challenge for students is to incorporate all the major subsystems of a satellite (power, communication, OBDH, attitude, payload etc.) into this mini model. Space Education Research Lab of National Center of GIS & Space Applications has made tremendous contributions to STEM education, in the realm of Satellite Technology. Through innovative initiatives, SERL lab has consistently played a key role in fostering concepts of satellite technology and its applications among the youth. The notable STEM based events organized by SERL lab encompass CanSat Workshop (2023), Space Maker Camp (2023), STEM for Space Technology (2023), Let’s Build a CanSat (2023), Space Destination School (2023) and Beaconhouse Notion of Academia (BNA’2024). Competition Phases: CanSat Mission Phase 1 : Registration Eligibility Criteria: Phase 2: Mission Design Boot Camp Phase 3: CanSat Design & Development Workshop Phase 4: Launch & Mission Brief Link to registration: Following is a list of submission links of the competition deliverables: Note: Each team has to bring on 25th – 26th April, Functional CanSat Hardware along with printed reports and printed posters. National Cansat Champion PKR 100,000 and shield National Cansat Runner up PKR 50,000 and shield Certificate of Participation for all the Participants Note: All participants will get the Participation Certificates by Space Education Research Lab (SERL), National Center of GIS & Space Applications (NCGSA), Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, Pakistan on the submission of required documents and participation in all phases.