Institute of Space Technology, being the pioneer institute in space science, technology and applications reckoned the need of research and qualified human resource in the field of precise positioning, navigation and timing (PNT) and started a specialized Master of Science program in Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) in spring 2014. The program is structured according to the GNSS curriculum proposed and designed by the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) and the only program of its kind in Pakistan and the 4th across the globe after Italy, China and France. The MS GNSS course work covers eight subjects (24 credit hours) covering specific areas of GNSS (theory, technology and applications) followed by a six credit hours research thesis. Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) include constellations of Earth orbiting satellites in Medium Earth Orbits (MEO), networks of ground control and monitoring stations, and of receivers that calculate ground positions by the basic principle of trilateration. At present GNSS include two fully operational global navigation systems, the Global Positioning System (GPS) by US and the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System (GLONASS) by Russia. China has recently completed the launch of Beidou system while GALILEO by Europe is in the final phase of completion. In addition to global navigation systems, India has its own Regional Navigation Satellite System named as IRNSS / NavIC and Japan has the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS). Once all these global and regional systems become fully operational, the user will have access to positioning, navigation and timing signals from more than 100 satellites. In addition to global and regional navigation satellite systems, there are also space based augmentation systems namely the Wide-area Augmentation System (WAAS) by US, the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), the Russian System of Differential Correction and Monitoring (SDCM), the Indian GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) and Japanese Multi-functional Transport Satellite (MTSAT) Satellite-based Augmentation Systems (MSAS). GNSS applications offer a cost-effective way of pursuing sustainable growth and provide solution to nearly all the SDGs. The applications and market of GNSS is enormous and employed in all sectors namely space/air/land/marine transportation and management, construction and survey, mining , health, fishing, agriculture, livestock management, space weather monitoring, telecommunications , electric power management, help and rescue, law enforcement, disaster and emergency response, finance and more. Keeping in view the wide application of GNSS, the specific objectives of the graduate program in GNSS are the demonstration and understanding of GNSS constellations, signals, errors, augmentation, sensors integration, receivers and practical applications development. As we move forward in the 21st century, governments and business in developing and industrialized countries are exploring potential growth areas for their national economies. Almost without exception, the most promising option seems to be the outer space, and in particular the satellite positioning, navigation and timing (PNT). A student should choose 1 course from each of the 2 Optional Groups (I and II) after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Group – I: Integration and Design of Satellite Navigation Systems Group – II: Satellite Navigation System Applications Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty. PEO-1: GNSS Professionals with a strong practical and theoretical exposure who are able to contribute to society through innovation, enterprise and leadership PEO-2: GNSS Graduates with critical thinking and global outlook to provide technological solutions through necessary technological tools PEO-3: GNSS Professionals with ethical values, communication and interpersonal skills to work in interdisciplinary teams and capable to adopt to changing environments of science, engineering, technology and society PLO-1: Knowledge & Understanding The students will have knowledge and understanding of advanced mathematics, GNSS fundamentals, GNSS data formats, signal structures and positioning algorithms with their applications. They will also have fundamental concepts and understanding of principle and theory of Navigation, Positioning and GNSS. They will be well aware of engineering solutions, emerging technologies and GNSS constellations & augmentation and the ability to resolve practical engineering problems and providing GNSS solutions. PLO-2: Problem Analysis and Solution Design They will exhibit knowledge of acquired material and research. They will conceive, plan and execute an engineering and science problems in a systematic way. They would use information to innovate and implement alternate solutions and applications. They will also evaluate the designs, processes and products and make improvements. They will integrate and evaluate information, data and knowledge from a variety of sources. They would also take holistic approach in designing systems, applying professional judgments to balance risks, costs, scope and quality. PLO-3: Problem Investigation and Experimentation They will plan and execute a series of experiments and demonstrations safely. They will use software and hardware to generate data, to analyze experimental results and to draw correct inferences. They will prepare technical reports, proposals, business cases and presentations. They will have skills to search and use relevant scientific literature effectively. They will take notes effectively, use computational tools and packages. PLO-4: Interpersonal and Professional Capability The students will communicate effectively in writing and verbally. They will apply mathematical skills to transfer techniques and solutions from one field of engineering / science to another. They will manage resources and time efficiently and effectively. They will learn independently in familiar and unfamiliar situations with open-mindedness and in the spirit of critical enquiry. They will do effective research in their respective fields individually or part of various teams with an understanding of the impact of GNSS in societal and environmental contexts and knowledge of the need for sustainable development. Dr. Najam Abbas Naqvi (Program Head) Email: Najam.naqvi@ist.edu.pk | Phone: +92(0)-51-907-5578 | +92(0)-321-5041155 GNSS Lab (Lab – 311), Naqvi Block Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad, Pakistan.