The mission of the program is to provide students with a platform in mathematics that strengthens the foundation of theoretical, applied mathematics, and edge-cutting technologies in students to make them highly marketable regarding their future endeavors. The curriculum for BS student is designed by collaboration of the mathematicians and engineers. Students undertaking research in this department will have a chance to learn not only the fundamental courses of mathematics but also advanced courses in different emerging areas. AM&S is also providing support to other engineering and sciences departments of IST so, upon successful completion of the courses taught by mathematics faculty, students will be able to: PLO-01: Applied and Basic Mathematical Knowledge: An ability to learn basics and apply basic knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of multiplex scientific problems. PLO-02: Problem Analysis & Investigation: An ability to identify, formulate and investigate research literature and analyze complex problems reaching substantiated conclusions using mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. PLO-03: Design/Development of Solutions: An ability to design solutions for emerging problems and design systems, components, or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-04: Modern Tool Usage: An ability to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modeling with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-05: Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, responsibilities, and norms of mathematical practices. PLO-06: Communication: An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing with the scientific community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentations, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-07: Project Management and Team Work: An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply scientific principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment.