The date of request for fee refund claims will be considered from the date of receipt of application through email at To apply for refund, an applicant is required to email refund request at along-with the reason of leaving IST, scan copy of paid challan form/s & copy of CNIC of Guardian Application Processing Fee and Admission Fee are non-refundable. From Registration, all students are required to complete NDC to process the refund of dues (if any) as per fee refund policy Tuition Fee, Sports Fee, Library Fee and Laboratory Fee, service charges, Safe/Smart Campus Charges, Endowment Fund, Library Development Fund are refundable within 15 days of convene of classes on a pro rata basis as given below. No refund shall be admissible after 15 days of convene of classes either one joins IST/avail facilities or not. If admission is offered after commencement of classes, date of commencement of classes will be considered as mentioned in offer letter. Adjustment of student liability from 2nd Semester onward will be based on class attendance & facility will be charged as per actual. The application for the adjustment of student’s liability will only be entertained on the verification by concerned HoD and approval of Registrar. In case of Admission cancellation in 1st semester cheque of fee refund will be issued in the name of student’s father/Guardian. 100% dues will be refunded in case where student could not attain requisite marks/grade for admission as prescribed by the institute. This policy is only applicable on fresh admissions. However Optional Charges will be deducted as per actual usage of facilities based on 4.5 Month/Semester Basis. In case of semester freeze, fee once deposited will be adjusted in next semester as per freeze policy after re-joining the student. If student wants to leave the institute after freezing his semester, then dues will be refunded according to refund policy present at the time of freezing the semester. Transport Charges and Hostel Charges (Dormitory Charges, Shuttle Service Charges, Washing Charges) are refundable within 30 days of registration on a pro rata basis as given below. No refund shall be admissible after 30 days of registration either one joins IST/avails facilities or not. However, refund will be calculated based on the date of application or date of leaving the facilities whichever is later. In case of refund of optional dues (Hostel + Transport) before registration day, 100% dues will be refunded. Conversion of Hostel Facility into Transport Facility (subject to availability) within two months will be adjusted as per actual use of facility (4.5 Months basis). After two months, transport facility will be provided free of cost. However, conversion of Transport Facility into Hostel Facility (subject to availability) requires the deposit of deficient amount (Hostel Charges Less Transport Charges). During continual enrollment, a student can avail monthly hostel facility maximum up to two months. Otherwise S/he will have to pay full semester charges. Before the commencement of classes of each semester, all active students are registered for courses offered by respective department. A student shall not be considered to have been registered for the semester unless all previous dues have been paid. Hostel accommodation and transport facilities shall only be provided to students after registration. Every student must update his/her personal information shown in student portal at the start of every semester. The following fine will be levied for payment of fee after due date: For first fifteen days after the due date, 5% of the total payable amount After fifteen days and up to one month after due date, 10% of the total payable amount Students will only be allowed to appear in final exam after deposit of outstanding dues along with fine Payment of fees can be made through online Transfer/Bank Draft/Pay order against the fee challan issued at any online branch of HBL (Nationwide). Note: Cheques and Cash are not acceptable.