The Higher Education Commission (HEC) has made available more than 1,78,000 online books in addition to 23,000 journals and more than one million full text theses to researchers within public and private universities in Pakistan under the Digital Library Programme. If you are at IST Islamabad Campus, you can access the resources provided to IST by following the links appended below. The ASTM Standards & Engineering Digital Library is a vast collection of industry-leading standards and technical engineering information. It covers a broad range of engineering disciplines, including aerospace, biomedical, chemical, civil, environmental, geological, health and safety, industrial, materials science, mechanical, nuclear, petroleum, soil science and solar engineering AAPT publications provide up to date physics knowledge, at a level comprehensible for many readers. Two major peer-reviewed journals, the American Journal of Physics and The Physics Teacher provide a medium for sharing methods and research about teaching physics at introductory and advanced levels. APS provides access to 9 prestigious research publications, which include five-specialist Physical Review Publications, and the PROLA archive. Cambridge University Press publishes nearly 200 peer-reviewed academic journals across a wide spread of subject areas. Cambridge Journals Online is the online content delivery service for Cambridge University Press’s collection of nearly 200 leading journals. Subject Strengths includes: Politics, Linguistics, Social Science, Humanities, Law, Mathematics, Science and Medicine. Ebrary/ProQuest Ebook Central offers a wide variety of content across many subject areas, especially in business and social science. It acquires integrated collections of e-Books and other content. ebrary/ProQuest Ebook Central continues to add quality eBooks and other authoritative titles to their selection from the world's leading academic and professional publishers. Users will be able to download the entire book for 120 days. To access this encrypted file, you will need , available free online. The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) is the largest society in the world for professionals in the field of operations research (O.R.), management science, and analytics. The IEEE/IEE Electronic Library (IEL) provides access to almost a third of the world’s current electrical engineering and computer science literature, featuring high-quality content from the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) and the Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE). IEL provides full-text access to many top-cited journals in the field, including 132 IEEE and 45 IEE journals, magazines, transactions and conference proceedings as well as active IEEE standards over one million documents in all. SIAM fosters the development of applied mathematical and computational methodologies needed in these various application areas. Applied mathematics in partnership with computational science is essential in solving many real-world problems. Through publications, research, and community, the mission of SIAM is to build cooperation between mathematics and the worlds of science and technology. Project MUSE is a leading provider of digital humanities and social science content for the scholarly community. Since 1995 the MUSE journal collections have supported a wide array of research needs at academic, public, special, and school libraries worldwide. MUSE is the trusted source of complete, full-text versions of scholarly journals from many of the world's leading university presses and scholarly societies, with over 120 publishers currently participating. UPCC Book Collections on Project MUSE, launched in January 2012, offer top quality book-length scholarship, fully integrated with MUSE's scholarly journal content. ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global is the world's most comprehensive collection of dissertations and theses from around the world, spanning from 1743 to the present day and offering full text for graduate works added since 1997, along with selected full text for works written prior to 1997. It contains a significant amount of new international dissertations and theses both in citations and in full text. One of the world’s leading information services for science, technical and medical journals, Springer Link contains premier electronic date for 503 full-text Springer Journals and 738 full-text journals formerly published by Kluwer Academic Publishing. Access is available to full text journals on computer science, mathematics, physics and astronomy, life sciences, chemical sciences, medicine, engineering, geo-sciences, environmental sciences, law and economics. Taylor & Francis have grown rapidly over the last two decades to become a leading international academic publisher. One can get multidisciplinary knowledge through this database. The University of Chicago Press introduced fourteen scholarly journals including, American Journal of Sociology, The Elementary School Journal, The Journal of Geology, International Journal of Plant Sciences, Journal of Near Eastern Studies, and Journal of Political Economy. The Journals Division of the Press distributes more than 50 journals and hardcover serials, presenting original research from international scholars in the social sciences, humanities, education, biological and medical sciences, and physical. Wiley-Interscience is an STM (Science, technology, and Medicine) and SSH (Social Sciences and Humanities) publisher. Introduced in 1997, Wiley InterScience is a leading international resource for scientific, technical, medical and scholarly content. In June 2008, Wiley InterScience incorporated the online content formerly hosted on Blackwell Synergy to provide access across 1,234 journals in science, technology, medicine, humanities and social sciences. Since the Blackwell-Synergy merger with Wiley-Interscience, all the journals available to HEC consortium are now available through Wiley-Interscience.