Irfan Majid holds a post graduate avionics degree in Avionics Engineering & presently is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. He is a seasoned Avionics Engineer with over thirty years’ experience. His work experience includes avionics maintenance & testing, life cycle support, R&D work for avionics systems of manned and unmanned aircraft. He is Senior Member of IEEE and nominated on Avionics System Panel of IEEE Aerospace Electronics System Society. The panel promotes avionics related activities worldwide and provides guidance for R&D work. His current research areas include certification for AI/ML in safety critical avionics systems, Communications Navigation & Surveillance (CNS) systems architectures for Urban Air Mobility and Aircraft Electromagnetic Compatibility analysis. He has authored a number of research publications and a book chapter. He regularly offers tutorials in Digital Avionics System Conference. Dr. Suhail Akhtar, Fellow Royal Aeronautical Society, received his B.Eng. degree from NED University, Karachi, Pakistan. He holds a DEA in Control Systems from Université de Technologie de Compiègne, France and MS and PhD Degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Michigan, USA. His research interests include non-linear dynamics state estimation and control for aerospace applications, aircraft dynamics at high angles of, adaptive disturbance rejection and H_8 attitude estimation and control on SO(3). Dr. Israr Hussain holds a Doctorate degree from University of Manchester, UK. Currently HoD of Department of Avionics Engineering. He is an experienced Avionics engineer with over thirty years of experience. His research areas are Image Processing and synthetic vision. He has actively worked in implementation of image processing algorithms on FPGAs. Since 2002 he has held various teaching and management positions in academic institutions. Dr. Muhammad Abdul Rehman Khan is a Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. He is a highly experienced Avionics Engineer with almost forty years’ experience. His experience with avionics systems encompasses maintenance, life cycle support, integration and design & development. His MS & PhD is in the field of Communication systems and has worked in design of Microwave and Millimeter wave links. His doctorate thesis was related to system capacity analysis of communication systems an important element of CNS avionics. Sardar Ahmad holds a post graduate degree in Avionics Engineering and currently is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. He extensive field as well as R&D experience in military Avionics Systems. He is certified in Avionics integration from SAGEM France and specializes in VX Works for RTOS based development. He also has rich experience of Aircraft Simulator Design. Muhammad Zahid is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. His areas of expertise are electronics, avionics, data & computer communications, project management and human factors engineering. He has rich experience in various areas of Engineering (Electronics / Avionics / Data & Computer communications / Human Factors Engineering), Project Management, Technical / Maintenance Management, Research & Development and Teaching / Training to bring about a positive change within and beyond the scope of his influence.