The National Bank is the largest commercial bank of Pakistan and CSR is an integral part of NBP's corporate policy. It has institutionalized by creating a separate Division and running a full-fledged CSR Program to bring positive change and improving quality of life of underprivileged members of our society. The Prime area of focus for CSR initiatives are Education, Health, Woman & Child, Special Persons, Culture & relief for affectees of natural disasters. NBP has contributed in the 'Health' sector by providing financial and Equipment support to MALC Leprosy Centre, SIUT, Noor Hospital Chakwal, Ghulab Devi, Lady Willington, and Ganga Ram & Bolan Medical Hospitals. Bank also organizes Medical & Eye camps countrywide for free treatment of Underprivileged patients. NBP has recently adopted 05 outpatient Clinics at National Epilepsy center located in Karachi within the boundaries of Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre where free of cost treatment is provided to Epilepsy Patients. In 'Education' sector, NBP is working on a major project aimed at expediting and facilitating socio-economic development through the spread of knowledge and skills at the grassroots level. Bank is supporting financially to "The HUB", "KSBL", "IBA", Taaleem Foundation school in Baluchistan, TCF School at Nawabshah and Children Care Foundation Lahore. Under NBP Scholarship Program more than 100 students belongs to Hunar Foundation, IBA Sukkur, PAF Sargodhian Sprit Trust and Academy INFAQ Foundation and Children Care Foundation Lahore are getting financial assistance. At provincial level Bank runs school & college Volunteer Training program (MOVE) in collaboration with FESF (Family Educational, and Service Foundation). Bank Sponsored Cultural events like All Pakistan Folk singing Mela at Faisalabad and Aalmi Mushaira at Arts Council Karachi. NBP pays special attentions to Special person and distributed more than 600 Wheel Chairs, White Canes, and organize sporting activities at National Level. Bank initiated project "Empowered Women and Empowered Pakistan" vocational training to help needy and poor women especially women of rural back grounds. This project open and conclude in 2 centers of each province of Pakistan. Awards and Achievements: Contact Information: Mirza Babur Baig EVP & Divisional Head – CSR & SD Division Inclusive Development Group Tel: 021 – 99220622 Email: Sabeen Gul Wing Head – CSR & SD Division Inclusive Development Group Tel: 021-99220135 Email: