Quality education is the key to success, instrumental to solution of problems, and essential for overall personality... Quality education is the key to success, instrumental to solution of problems, and essential for overall personality and social development. Beside promoting sports activities in the affiliated schools and Colleges, BISE, Mardan exercise its power to regulate and maintain Academic discipline, both in Public and Private Educational institutions, through the collective efforts of its important segments, in the Districts of Mardan, Nowshera and Swabi,....... The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Mardan, Khyber Pakhtukhwa established under ordinance ACT 1990, is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Education. It is empowered with administrative and financial authority to organize, regulate , develop and control Intermediate and Secondary Education, and conduct examinations in the institutions affiliated with it... Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Mardan mission is to provide enlighted education and examination services to the nation. The future of nation depends mainly on its educational system.Education sets the path for development and helps to achieve the desired goals. Therefore, Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Mardan is striving hard to take measures/steps to improve the quality education in the country... Secretary Secretary 0937-9230257-9230338 secretary@bisemdn.edu.pk Controller of Examinations/ Look-after Charge Controller of Examinations/ Look-after Charge 0937-9230279-9230338 controller@bisemdn.edu.pk Research & Development Officer M.Phil Botany 0937-9230354 academic@bisemdn.edu.pk Deputy. Director (IT) Deputy. Director (IT) 0937-844781 farhanulhaq4@gmail.com Student can generate computerized bank challan for submission of all types of Board fee .. OMR (Optical Mark Recognition system) for Computerized marking of Papers. Online Enrolment and Registration is to bring 100% accuracy in the data & prompt response on their doorstep. Visit or page. You can drop us email on