Our BS Space Science program has specializations in Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Science, Astronomy & Astrophysics, and Environmental Science; all of which have market demand and plenty of opportunities for higher studies. Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Science: Remote Sensing (RS) is the science and technology of satellite imaging of the Earth’s atmosphere, surface, and oceans, and Geographic Information Science (GISc) refers to the science and technology of geographic data manipulation, analysis, and visualization. Together, the fields of RS & GISc and their associated disciplines have now emerged as "enabling disciplines" in almost every domain. The RS & GISc stream at IST focusses on studying the earth processes and dynamics (e.g. forests, oceans, urban areas, rivers) using optical, radar, and hyperspectral satellite / drone imagery, photogrammetry and terrain estimation, disaster management and mitigation, GIS IT tools expertise and customization, spatial data structures and databases, spatial data visualization, and mobile and webGIS. Astronomy and Astrophysics is one of the most rapidly expanding fields in the world. Exciting new projects are being developed worldwide to further understand the Universe. IST’s Astronomy and Astrophysics program provides a unique opportunity for Pakistani students to expand their horizon by learning and developing a career in this field. In the Astronomy and Astrophysics specialization of the BS Space Science program, students are given the necessary physics and mathematics skills they need as well as more advanced concepts and specialized courses providing essential computational tools for a rewarding career in the domain. Environmental science is an interdisciplinary academic field that integrates physical, biological and information sciences (including physics, chemistry, oceanography, physical geography, and atmospheric science) to study environment and to find the possible solution of environmental problems. Environmental studies incorporate more of the social sciences for understanding human relationships, perceptions and policies towards the environment.The environmental science stream at IST focuses on Atmospheric Dynamics, Climate Change, hydrological modelling, SMOG, urban air pollution and meteorological process that are occurring at local and regional scale. PEO-1: Understanding of the various domains of space science on the fundamental, conceptual and application level. PEO-2: Ability to comprehend, analyze and address scientific problems in space science domains. PEO-3: Capacity to work in national or international teams in space science and related domains, with full professional and ethical responsibilities, and ability to communicate in an effective manner. PLO-1: Scientific Knowledge Knowledge of the domains of space science and the ability to apply this knowledge to analyze variety of scientific problems. PLO-2: Mathematical Skills and Knowledge Skills in mathematics and comprehension of mathematical concepts needed in space science domains. PLO-3: Modern Tool Usage Ability to use modern tools, techniques and skills to analyze and solve problems in the space science domains. PLO-4: Problem Analysis Ability to identify, formulate, research literature, and investigate scientific problems. PLO-5: Investigation Ability to acquire, analyze and interpret data as well as synthesize information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-6: Environment, Sustainability and Society Understanding of the impact of space science in societal and environmental contexts and knowledge of the needs for sustainable development. PLO-7: Ethics Understanding of ethical principles and an ability to apply them along with a commitment to professional ethics and responsibilities. PLO-8: Individual and Teamwork Ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, in multifaceted and/or multi-disciplinary settings. PLO-9: Communication Ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing with the scientific community and with the society at large. PLO-10: Project Management Management and leadership skills, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-11: Lifelong Learning Ability to recognize importance of life-long learning in the broader context of innovation and scientific developments.