PLO-1. Engineering Knowledge: Students will be able to apply knowledge of mathematics, science & engineering fundamentals to the solution of complex problems related to materials engineering. PLO-2. Engineering Problem Analysis: Students will be able to identify, formulate, research literature and analyze complex engineering problems related to materials reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. PLO-3. Design / Development of Solutions: Students will be able to design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health & safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-4. Investigation: Students will be able to investigate complex materials related problems in a methodical way including literature survey, design and conduct of experiments, analysis and interpretation of experimental data, and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-5. Modern Tool Usage: Students will be able to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling, to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-6. Engineer and Society: Students will be able to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess safety, health, legal, societal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solution to complex engineering problems. PLO-7. Environment and Sustainability: Students will be able to understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development. PLO-8. Ethics: Students will be able to apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of engineering practice. PLO-9. Individual & Team Work: Students will be able to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and/or multi-disciplinary settings. PLO-10. Communication: Students will be able to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing, on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with the society at large, such as being able comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-11. Project Management: Students will be able to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-12. Life Long Learning: Students will be able to recognize importance of, and pursue life-long learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments.