Propulsion is the basic concept of operating and designing of propulsion devices which include engines and power plants. In our labs, students will be able to examine motors, engines, and compressors and strive to improve their performances and reliability. They would be primarily working to design propulsion systems and parts such as propellant systems, engines, pumps, pressurization tanks, and control systems. The concept of aerodynamics is the investigation into the air flow around objects and how it affects their behavior. Our labs contain all the necessary apparatuses required to study and practically apply the laws of aerodynamics and are a valuable resource for engineering project testing, fluid mechanics coursework and alternative energy courses. Control Systems are mostly utilized in the management, commandment, and regulation of devices. In our state-of-the-art labs students shall be able to conduct experiments with the concept of control system analysis and design in time and frequency domain both by classical methods and modern techniques. Mechanics of Materials is the study of characteristics of a material subjected to stresses and strains. Our lab provides the students with basic tools to determine stress, strain and perform deformation analysis, apply methods for determining the effects produced by applying various loads on different materials where they shall be able to use their findings to design structures and components for various aeronautical devices. Equipped with all the necessary tools required for basic knowledge of machines, welding, carpentry and fitting, our workshop technology lab is designed to let students develop the practical workshop skills by gaining basic training on converting technical drawing into practical workshop models. UAV stands for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, something that can fly without a pilot onboard. We have a serviced and fully equipped UAV laboratory at IST. Students can design and fabricate any kind of UAV in the lab with ample space. Most importantly the lab provides laser cutting and 3D printing. Modeling and Simulation Lab provides high end computational facilities to students, faculty and researchers, having modeling & simulation or computational requirements at Institute of Space Technology (IST). This Project lab is established to provide software based solutions to engineering problems by using state of the art computers in a conducive environment. Modeling and Simulation Lab is the host to the IST’s computational research capability that includes high end computational resources. The lab also aims to facilitate collaborative bodies from across the nation. Fluid Dynamics examines and describes the flow of fluids which include liquids and gases. Our labs contain flow measurement devices, flow visualization apparatus, hydraulic pumps, and turbines where students will be able to experimentally demonstrate their knowledge and familiarize themselves with the working principles by recording calculations. Flight vehicle designing relates to the designing of aerial vehicles keeping the important aerodynamics in view. Our lab at IST helps students to specify objectives and constraints and then establish scenarios. Here they can model, create intelligent agents, map strategic objectives, execute simulation and then generate surrogate models. Laboratory instruments need to have high quality and be durable in order to meet the high standards in laboratory technology. Our aerospace instrumentation laboratory carries pressure gauges, temperature controllers, automation sensors, encoders, and other high precision control and monitoring equipment. Information technology is the study, design, development, implementation, support or management of computer-based information systems. We have IT labs supported with sophisticated measurements, meet technical standards, and associated testing activities. Students can perform and confront the unique technical challenges for almost all the scientifically advanced fields here. Structures in aerodynamics and astrodynamics are designed to be lightweight, strong, and robust for them to compete against harsh conditions. In our labs, students will have the chance to design, build, and fly new aircraft concepts which shall help them to work on a variety of structural concepts that impact spacecraft, aircraft and UAS systems.