The program is offered as a full-time course with a duration of four years, extendable to six years according to IST's statues and HEC standards and rules; and leads, at the end of the program, to a BS degree in Biotechnology. The total credit hours are 132 and all students follow the same core courses; however, they may opt for different elective courses. The students who do not complete the program requirements are not awarded any degree; but they are provided with a transcript on their request. A student is said to have a good standing if his/her CGPA is 2.00 or more. However, student is cautioned if CGPA is 2.00 or above and SGPA falls below 2.00. A student is given the status of probation (Temporary Enrolment) if CGPA falls below 2.00, and if during probation his/her CGPA falls below 2.00 and SGPA is 2.00 or more then the student gets a second probation (Extended Temporary Enrolment). Student is dropped out if his/her SGPA is below 2.00 during probation (Temporary Enrolment) or his/her CGPA is below 2.00 during second probation (Extended Temporary Enrolment). The courses are categorized into four domains: general education cluster, minor, interdisciplinary, and major courses. In addition to passing all the courses with the required CGPA, the student has to attain all twelve PLOs, to earn a BS (Biotechnology) degree. "The Biotechnology program endeavors to foster future leaders in research, academia, and industry with a specialized undergraduate curriculum. Our focus on cutting-edge research aligns with the evolving needs of society, integrating principles that resonate with space technology, thereby advancing scientific exploration, entrepreneurship, and societal well-being." The objectives of the Biotechnology program are to empower our students to engage in critical thinking, rationalize information, and effectively apply acquired knowledge. Our aim is to equip them with the skills to formulate remedial strategies for addressing health, agricultural, industrial, and environmental challenges through the application of biotechnological techniques. PEO-1 The graduates will contribute competently to the industry related to biotechnology by applying requisite technical skills. PEO-2 The graduates will demonstrate advancement in their profession by enhancing their knowledge and skills in their relevant field. PEO-3 The graduates will demonstrate commitment to ethical values and contribute positively towards society. Knowledge An ability to apply fundamental and specialized knowledge of biotechnology to the solution of complex biotechnological problems. PLO-2 Hypothesis Formulation An ability to identify, formulate, research literature, analyze complex biotechnology problems, reaching substantiated conclusions towards formulation of hypothesis using fundamental principles of biotechnology. PLO-3 Experiment/ Process Design An ability to design experimental solutions to validate biotechnology Hypothesis and design process while maintaining biotechnology standards, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-4 Investigation An ability to investigate complex issues in biotechnology in a methodical way including literature survey, and development of systems, analysis and interpretation of experimental data, and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-5 Modern Tool Usage An ability to select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern tools, including prediction and modeling, to complex biotechnology activities, with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-6 Impact Analysis An ability to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional biotechnology practice and solution to complex biotechnology problems. PLO-7 Management Skills An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply biotechnology principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-8 Team Work An ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and /or multidisciplinary settings. PLO-9 Ethics Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of biotechnology practice. PLO-10 Communication An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing, on complex biotechnology activities with the biotechnology community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-11 Project Management An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-12 Lifelong LearningAn ability to recognize the importance of, and pursue lifelong learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments. CELL BIOLOGY Introduction to cell theory, structure, chemical constituents of cell and cell organelles and their functions, separation of cell organelles, Cell membrane, its molecular organization and functional role, The concept of the unit membrane, the fluid mosaic model, membrane receptors and transport mechanisms. MICROBIOLOGY and Virology Introduction and scope of Microbiology, Historical foundations of Microbiology, General characteristics of Microbes, methods of Microbiology, bacterial forms and ultrastructure, microbial nutrition, cultivation, reproduction and growth, Metabolic characteristics, symbiotic relationships, taxonomy, classification, nomenclature of microorganism/bacteria. BIOCHEMISTRY Introduction to biochemistry, amino acids and proteins, general functions, classification, primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary structure, Fibrous and globular proteins, Protein stability, Protein folding. Enzyme nomenclature and classification, co-factors and co-enzymes, general characteristics of enzymatic reactions. RECOMBINANT DNA TECHNOLOGY Introduction and History of Recombinant DNA technology, Basic techniques, gel electrophoresis, Blotting techniques, restriction endonucleases, restriction mapping, vectors and their types, cloning vectors, transformations, Polymerase Chain reaction, Cloning strategies, Site-directed mutagenesis. Sequencing strategies, Application of recombinant DNA Technology (agriculture, health, industry, environment, and basic research).