Every year KICSIT provides scholarships exceeding worth Rs. 2.0 Millions to the talented and needy students. The number of scholarships KICSIT provides, exceeds the percentage requirement of scholarships set by HEC. . Merit Award for Students (1st To 8th Semesters) Merit Award is given on the basis of excellent academic performance to Students from 1st To 8th Semesters. The top three position-holders in each semester are given this award worth 50%, 37.5%, & 25% of tuition fee (of KRL Wards) waivers respectively. To qualify for this award students should have earned SGPA of 3.0 or above for semester II to VII and 70% marks or above in Intermediate result for first semester. In case of equal SGPAs, positions are given on the basis of higher percentage. This award is not dependent on any other scholarship. Need Based Scholarships KICSIT provides financial support to talented needy students in the form KICSIT Need Based Scholarships. This scholarship is open for all onboard students and they can be from any fee category. The applicant should have obtained SGPA of 3.00 or above (70% or above in FSc for first year students).The applicant should submit application form along with all relevant documents. at the start of the semester after final result notification from KICSIT CoE office. Scholarships will be awarded for only one semester but can be re-availed in subsequent semesters, if the need prevails and for this student will have to put up fresh application. A student can avail only one scholarship at a time except Merit Award. Decision for the award of scholarships and amounts will be made on case to case basis as recommended by Scholarship Committee and approved by Director General KICSIT. HEC Ehsas Undergraduate Scholarship The Ehsas Undergraduate Scholarship Project focuses on the most critical segment, namely the 4-5year undergraduate programs, which contributes the most to income of the individual who completes the bachelor’s degree. It is one of the sizeable project funding under Government of Pakistan's Ehsaas social safety net program which aims to provide 50,000 undergraduate scholarships with an average budget of Rs.6 billion annually. Over a period of next four to five years these scholarships will be increased to around 200,000. Scholarship covers university tuition fee and stipend throughout four-five years of degree duration. It is a significant step to ensure affordable higher education in all major fields of education including agriculture, arts and humanities, business education, engineering, medical, physical sciences, and social sciences. The project aims to support female education therefore 50% of scholarships are reserved for the female students in the overall Project's target. Scholarships are offered for the newly admitted students Admissions secured on merit only. Merit means that the student has fulfilled the admission criteria of the institution in which he/she intends to study. Degree programs allowed by the HEC. Age limit set by institution's regulations, i.e., the maximum age of the eligibility for the scholarship is the same as the maximum age for applying for admission in undergraduate programs at the HEI. Interest free loans are also provided to IST students by National Bank of Pakistan (NBP). The process to apply for loan and other details are available at