Aerospace Engineering is an emerging field of the new millennium. Presently, Pakistan has shortage of Aerospace Engineers and most of the seats reserved for Aerospace Engineers are vacant and very few Aerospace Engineers are coming from abroad to fulfill the needs. Like wise Electrical Engineering has a vast market nationally and internationally. The Engineers in these fields are hired in Government Sector on enhanced pay scales. For more details check out Students with HSSC/ A-Level/ Equivalent (Phy, Maths and Computer) are eligible to apply for the program of BS (Space Science) only. Please upload FSC final result card with your online application form. Yes, it is mandatory to have valid NAT/ HAT/ SAT-II score because it has 40% weightage in merit for Pre-engineering students and 60% weightage for A-Level student. Mention NTN number of your guardian, if available, otherwise leave that cell empty. A guardian is a person who are looking after you in terms of taking your care, paying your educational expenses etc. If you are sure that you will be able to improve your score in major subjects as per eligibility criteria mentioned on IST website, then you may apply for admission in engineering programs of IST based on your score in FSC (Part-1). If you are sure that you will be able to improve your score after FSC, as per eligibility criteria mentioned on IST website, then you may apply for admission in IST based on your score in FSC (Part-1). Yes, it is mandatory for O-Level students to obtain equivalence certificate from IBCC and upload with online application form before the closing date of application to apply for admission in IST. Yes, it is mandatory if an applicant have already passed A-Level exam. In other case a student can obtain A-Level equivalence certificate after the announcement of results. You are required to mention the score of FSc (Part-1) because as per eligibility criteria, merit will be determined based on the marks obtained in FSc (Part-1). If you have deposit application processing fee then please wait. Your application will be processed soon. Merit lists are displayed on IST website within one week after the closing date to apply for admission in IST. You are required to upload desired documents with your online admission form. Do not send application form or any other document to IST. Last date to deposit application processing fee is same as closing date to apply for admission in IST. Reference Number is mentioned just below the line where obtained marks by the student are mentioned on equivalence certificate. Serial Number is given on top right corner of equivalence certificate. FSc students are required to mention registration number issued by concerned board. Yes, you can edit/update your online application form up to closing date to apply for admission in IST by using your log-in details. In the same way, you can also upload or replace existing documents which are attached with your online application form. When you will upload new documsnt, the previous one will be deleted automatically. You are required to send an email at info@ist.edu.pk highlighting the problem which you are facing while creating log in or accessing your online application form Yes, you can apply for admission in IST based on your score in FSC pre-medical (part-1).