Step 1 - Admissions Announcement on IST Website/ National Newspapers Undergraduate (BS) admissions are announced on IST Website/ National Newspapers once a year i.e. in April/ May. Step 2 - Completion of Online Admission Form Candidates interested to apply for admission in IST are required to visit or to create an online account, read & understand the eligibility & merit determination criteria, fee structure, fee refund policy and other related information. Subsequently, eligible candidates willing to apply for admission in IST are required to complete online admission form by providing desired information and uploading the scan copies of required documents with online admission form. Step 3 - Deposit of Application Processing Fee After creating an online account, applicants are required to download the challan form available at online admission form to deposit of application processing fee (non-refundable) in any online branch of HBL (within due date). It is a mandatory requirement. An email is sent for the confirmation of receipt of application processing fee and in parallel; fee receipt status is also updated at online admission form. In case if the application processing fee status is not updated at online admission within one week after the deposit of application processing fee then such applicants are required to contact Admissions Office with proof through email. Step 4 - Merit Lists/ Admissions Status Applicants are required to check their admission status on IST website by using the login details. An email/ SMS is also sent to provisionally selected applicants. However, applicants are strongly advised to keep visiting the IST website for updated information. Step 5 – Acceptance of Admission Provisionally selected applicants in respective programs are required to download the admission package by accessing the online admission system preferably through IST website. Admission package contain the offer letter, fee challan form/s, an affidavit (write-up), fee refund policy and other documents required to be submitted for registration in IST. Step 6 – Reservation of Seat to avail Hostel/ Transport Facility (optional) After the acceptance of admission offer, on the same page of online admission system, candidates are required to reserve hostel /transport seat (if they want to avail services of IST otherwise skip this section). Transport facility is provided only to the students of Rawalpindi & Islamabad from the designated points. IST have within campus separate hostel facility for male and female students with limited capacity therefore interested applicants can avail hostel facility subject to availability of seats. Step 7 – Deposit of Fee Candidates fulfilling the admissions requirements and willing to join IST are required to deposit the fee in any online branch of HBL within due date mentioned on challan forms. An email/ SMS is also sent for the confirmation of receipt of fee. It is highlighted that fully automated admission system of IST does not allow a late fee option. Therefore, nonpayment of dues within due date will make you in-eligible for admission in IST and consideration in subsequent merit lists and no request is entertained in this regard. Step 8 – Welcome to IST on Registration Day Provisionally admitted students are required to prepare the documents according to Offer Letter for the submission on Registration Day.