The Library services / facilities include Circulation Service, Reference Service, Online reservation of books, Recommendation of library material, Current Awareness Service, Inter Library Loan Service, Photocopying / Printing Service, Orientation and Information Sessions, Selective Dissemination of Information, Audio Visual Service and Multimedia Section. Circulation Services Library materials are borrowed and returned at the circulation desk, which is located near the main entrance. Reserved books, audio visual material, periodicals, reference books and CDs / DVDs can be used with in library. Reference Services Library provides reference and referral service to its users. Queries are answered using all possible sources. If the required information source is not available / accessible at IST Library, the users are referred to other libraries where the required information may be available. Online Reservation System Library users can reserve any book using our online reservation system if it is already issued. Reserved books are not reissued. Library user is automatically informed through email when a reserved book is returned and the same is held at circulation desk for two days. If the reserved book is not collected within two days, it is issued to other users or shelved. Recommend an Item We welcome faculty, staff, students and other members to recommend any material, which can add value to our library collection. Purchase of recommended items is subject to approval and availability of funds. However, we try our best to honor all recommendations of our valued library members. Current Awareness Service Library members are regularly informed about the recent acquisitions in the library. A list of "NEW ARRIVALS" is sent to the library users by e-mail on regular basis. Inter Library Loan Service Materials that are not held by IST library might be borrowed temporarily from other libraries on inter library loan basis. To avail this facility, users need to submit their demands to the HoD (Library). Photocopying / Printing Service Photocopying and printing facility is available with the library. Users can get the photocopy of required information from reference materials (like reference books, encyclopedias, dictionaries, journals and magazines etc.) on payment. Orientation and Information Sessions The library's orientation and information program extends the role of library in ensuring that users make the most effective use of library resources. The program is designed to educate the faculty members, students, and staff in locating printed and electronic knowledge resources to fulfill their information needs. This service is provided on individual and group basis. Selective Dissemination of Information (SDI) Keeping in view the area of interest of the library members, selected material is provided to them in order to keep them abreast of the latest knowledge in their field. Audio / Visual Service Library members can utilize audio visual resources available in library. To facilitate the users, necessary equipment has been provided for this purpose. Library staff also extends help to the members in using these resources. Multimedia Section Multimedia section is established in library with 10 latest computers equipped with multimedia and internet facilities. Equipments required for the use of different types of information media (like CDs, DVDs, Audios, Videos etc.) are available in this section so that users can have better access to the information resources in digital format.