Physics investigates the laws of nature and is indispensable not only for our understanding of the world but also for the solution of the technological and ecological problems. As a fundamental science, physics continues to be the driving intellectual force in expanding our understanding of the universe, in discovering the scientific basis for new technologies, and in applying these technologies to research. The Institute of Space Technology has launched a new program for MS in Physics, starting from Fall 2020. The MS program in Physics is designed to develop graduates through quality education and research in physics. Through this program students shall acquire a solid theoretical foundation as well as strong analytic, quantitative, experimental and problem-solving skills that shall enable them to perform research and tackle challenges at the cutting edge of scientific and technological horizon. The Department of Space Science and Physics at IST has distinguished faculty to its credit, who engage in both quality teaching and research. The department's resources not only include the well-trained faculty, but also high-quality labs that provide excellent research opportunities for the students. Active research groups are studying the physics of elementary particles; theoretical and experimental investigations of plasmas ranging from ionosphere to controlled nuclear fusion; electric and magnetic properties of materials; semiconductor physics; astrophysical modeling of supermassive black hole pairs as sources of gravitational waves; observations of stars; study of gamma ray bursts. The students shall be introduced to the research world by working in the diverse fields under the supervision of capable and well-equipped faculty of the department, where emphasis is placed on teaching and research and preparing the students to become the next great physicists of tomorrow and the future to come PEO-1: Advanced knowledge and scientific skills in various domains of physics. PEO-2: Creative and critical thinking to provide solutions to physical problems while working in scientific organizations, academia and research groups. PEO-3: Effective communication and interpersonal skills in their educational and professional careers with an understanding of social and ethical responsibilities. PLO-1: Deep understanding of core physics disciplines. PLO-2: Advanced analytical, computational and experimental skills to effectively solve complex physics problems. PLO-3: Effective communication and scientific writing skills to present scientific work in seminars, journals and conferences. A student should choose an elective course from the list after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Module – I (Astronomy & Astrophysics) Module-II (Plasma Physics) Module-III (Material Physics) Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty.