NBP maintains its position as Pakistan's Premier Bank with a network of over 1450+ domestic branches , 21 international branches, 2 international Subsidiaries and 3 international Representative Offices. The Bank also has presence in the UK through United National Bank Ltd (UNBL), a banking institution incorporated in the UK and authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). UNBL has six branches located in Central London, Ilford, Bradford, Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow. UNBL was formed in 2001 as a Joint Venture between NBP and UBL through merger of the UK branches of United Bank Limited and National Bank of Pakistan, who had been operating in the UK since the mid-1960s. The principal activities of UNBL are to provide retail banking products through its branch network and Agents in major cities in the UK; wholesale banking, treasury and money transmission services to Financial Institutions, and trade finance facilities to businesses of all sizes. NBP currently employs more than 15,000 people worldwide. The various departments of the bank include: Consumer Banking, Corporate Finance, Investment Banking, Agricultural Banking, Transactional Banking, Operations, Software Development and Automation, Financial Control, Treasury, Internal Audit, Risk Management & Credit, Economic & Business Research, Training & Development, Strategic Planning and Human Resources. NBP offers unlimited opportunities to its employees for continuous personal and professional growth: 1) Change Management Program: NBP has started an ambitious Change Management Program to further train its employees to meet the challenges of present day requirements. 2) Training of new staff: Training and development are the core issues of HR, which will ultimately improve our customer service and help us attain the standard of a progressive bank. • Team players with excellent interpersonal skills • Knowledge and use of information technology • Strong analytical and problem solving skills • Excellent written and verbal communication skills in English If you believe you possess all these qualities and are ambitious for a better future, send us your resume, along with a brief cover letter, at Human Resource Management Department National Bank of Pakistan Head Office NBP Building, I.I. Chundrigar Road Karachi, Pakistan. Tel: +92 (21) 9921 2215 Fax: +92 (21) 9921 2263