The advent of atmospheric sciences dates as far back as Aristotle who in his classical treatise, Meteorological laid some of the foundations of this expanding field. With the advent of ground instruments, computers and more recently observations from space, a new and exciting era of atmospheric and environmental sciences is unfolding. In the local context, Pakistan is heavily challenged due to extreme weather events and climate change including major massive flooding in the past four years. A major focus of the MS program is towards developing better understanding of these major issues and working towards providing solutions that are sustainable. The group at IST is focused on both physics and chemistry aspects of these issues and approaches complex environmental problems in a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary manner. Further, both local and international collaborations are involved, which includes joint partnerships with Pakistan Meteorological Department and Environment Canada. The MS program in Atmospheric and Environmental Science thus focuses on underlying physics and chemistry of processes related to Earth which involve direct observation, data analysis and modeling approaches. Key focus areas include Atmospheric Physics and Chemistry, Cloud and Aerosol dynamics, Satellite and Ground Meteorology, Hydrology and Climate Change. Students in the MS program are trained at local and international standards for scientific scholarship and research. This is expected to open many arenas of professional opportunities towards meaningful contributions to their scientific learning. PEO-1: Collaborate with Engineers and scientists from industry and academia as research/projects. PEO-2: Promote the culture of interdisciplinary novel research and produce fundamental & applied quality research in Pakistan PEO-3: Build environment and climate-oriented knowledge in the emerging areas of science and engineering, like, earth system dynamics, climate modeling, climatology, atmospheric modeling, air quality modeling and water resource management etc. PLO-1: Knowledge & Understanding The students will have background knowledge and basic understanding of environmental sciences, Hydrology fundamentals, Climate data formats, Climate ad Hydrological model structures and analysis with their applications. They will also have fundamental concepts and understanding of principle and theory of climate sciences, big data handling and hydrological cycle. PLO-2: Problem Analysis and Possible Solution They will exhibit knowledge of acquired material and research. They will conceive, plan and execute an existing science problem in a systematic way. They would use information to innovate and implement alternate possible solutions and their applications. They will also evaluate the designs, processes and bring improvements. They will integrate and evaluate information, data and knowledge from a variety of sources. They would also take holistic approach in environmental systems analysis, model building and applying professional judgments to balance risks and quality. PLO-3: Problem Investigation and Data Handling They will plan and execute a series of data handling experiments and demonstrations safely. They will use software to generate data, to analyze model results and to draw correct inferences. They will prepare technical reports, proposals, business cases and presentations. They will have skills to search and use relevant scientific literature effectively. They will take notes effectively, use computational tools and packages. PLO-4: Interpersonal and Professional skillsThe students will communicate effectively in writing and via presentations. They will apply hydrological, climatological and numerical modelling skills to transfer techniques and solutions from one field of science to another. They will manage resources and time efficiently and effectively. They will learn independently and work in multidisciplinary environment also with familiar and unfamiliar situations with open-mindedness and in the spirit of critical enquiry. They will do effective research in their respective fields individually or part of various teams with an understanding of the impact of Environment and climate sciences in societal contexts and knowledge of the need for sustainable development. A student should choose an elective course from the list after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty.