Materials Science & Engineering is a broad, versatile and ever evolving discipline. It deals with the structures, properties and applications of materials namely metals/alloys, ceramics/glasses, polymers/elastomers and composites. They are studied in terms of their structural, mechanical and functional properties and applications. As the need for smaller and lighter materials grows, the desire for new materials, their design, fabrication and characterization becomes imperative. Institute of Space Technology offers Indigenous MS Program in Materials Science & Engineering with areas of specialization in metals, ceramics, polymers, composites, aerospace materials and nano-engineering. The program aims to provide specialized training in modern materials science and engineering concepts to graduates. It would enable students to attain a deep understanding of the theoretical and practical aspects of materials engineering. The students will be pleasantly surprised to discover that the program is attractive because of its rapidly expanding importance in both academic and industrial sectors. Mandatory Courses Aerospace Materials (711121) A brief review of the fundamentals of materials and their types. Physical, mechanical and environmental properties. Review of phase diagrams. Structure of atmosphere, its major regions with their temperature profiles. Characteristics of the space environments. Requirements for aerospace materials. Evaporation effects on materials in space. Lightweight materials and their alloys for aerospace applications. High strength steels, stainless steels, super alloys and composites. Structure-property relations. Materials for pressure vessels and cryogenic applications. Extremely high temperature materials. Ablatives and thermal barrier coatings. Adhesives, lubricants, elastomers and advanced polymeric, ceramic and metal matrix composites for aerospace applications. Metallurgical assessment of space craft parts and materials. Effects of radiations on the performance of materials. Failure analysis and selection of materials. Mechanical Behavior of Materials (711119) Review of types of materials; elastic, linear elastic and visco-elastic materials. Stresses/strains, elastic and plastic deformation. Plastic deformation of a single and polycrystalline materials; slip and twinning. Tensile, compression, torsion, bend, impact and fracture toughness testing. Hall-Petch relation, spectrum of strain rate and its effect on the flow properties of materials. Strain hardening, strain rate sensitivity coefficients, anisotropy and R-value determination. Defects and imperfections in a single and polycrystalline materials; dislocations and their interactions. Plane stress and plane strain conditions; stress intensity factor, failure and fracture modes. Griffith and Orowan theory of fracture. Fatigue, creep and stress rupture. Nobaroo-Herring and Coble creep. Super-plasticity, radiation damage and embrittlement. Thermodynamics of Materials (611123) Thermodynamics review. Laws of thermodynamics; property relation; free energies; Maxwell relations; chemical potential; thermodynamic activity. Statistical thermodynamics. Defects in solids, Surfaces and interfaces. Solidification, metallic glasses, diffusion, atomic mechanisms of diffusion, high-diffusivity paths; diffusion in multiphase binary systems; diffusional transformations in solids, diffusionless transformations. Research Methodology (799909) Research design and planning. Research methods and tools. Data analaysis and interpretation. Research proposal. Literature review and report writing. Important steps in writing a technical paper. Thesis writing. Plagairism. Elective Courses Advanced Characterization Techniques (611124) Modern methods of materials characterization. X-ray techniques, X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Optical Microscopy and Spectroscopy, Ellipsometry, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), Raman spectroscopy, Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM), Particle Beam Analysis, Secondary Ion Mass Spectroscopy (SIMS), Rutherford Backscattering Spectroscopy (RBS) Metals and Alloys (611215) Different methods of classification of steels, various phases and reactions in steel: ferrite reaction, bainite reaction, martensite formation. Alloy steels; effects of alloying elements. Stainless steels: ferritic, martensitic, austenitic, precipitation-hardening. HSLA steels, maraging steels, dual-phase steels, tool steels. Corrosion of stainless steels. Aluminum alloys. Magnesium alloys. Titanium alloys. Nickel-base superalloys. Nickel-iron-base superalloys. Cobalt-base superalloys. Ceramics and Glasses (611406) Bonding in ceramics; structure of ceramics; effect of chemical forces on physical properties; thermodynamics and kinetic considerations; defects in ceramics; diffusion and electrical conductivity; phase equilibria; formation, structure and properties of glasses, sintering and mechanical properties. Fracture, creep and fatigue. Thermal properties; dielectric properties; magnetic and nonlinear dielectric properties, optical properties. Polymer Engineering (611312) Control and design of structure and molecular weight. Determination of molecular weight. Step growth process. Chain polymerization. Copolymerization. Stereoregularity of polymers, Polymerization processes, Morphology and Properties. Polymer testing. Polymer structure and stability. Hydrogels and dendrimers. Composites (611314) Historical background of composites; classification and general properties. Role of the constituent materials in composite manufacturing, i.e. matrices and reinforcements; their types, production and properties. Polymeric matrix composites (PMCs). Metal matrix composites (MMCs). Ceramic matrix composites (CMCs). General manufacturing techniques of PMCs, MMCs and CMCs and their principles. Special purpose composites. Fiber-matrix Interface and interphase, and their role in tailoring the properties of composites. Interface mechanics and toughness. Design and analysis of composites. Elastic, thermal and physical properties. Thermal stresses in composites. Applications of composites. Joining techniques for composites. Machining of composites. Special structures in composite manufacturing; light weight structural cores; honeycomb cores, foams. Hybrid composites. The emerging field of nanocomposites. Composite materials as surface coatings. Testing of composites: constituent material testing, testing of lamina and laminate. Mechanical testing of composites. Full-scale structural testing. Non-destructive testing of composites. Failure analysis of composites. Recycling and disposal of composites. Preform Technology for Composites (711313) Introduction to composites reinforcements, One-dimensional preforms, Two-dimensional preforms, Random fibre preforms, Preforms based on uni-directional layers, Woven reinforcements, braided reinforcements, Knittted reinforcements, Solid three-dimensional preforms, Sandwich preforms, Preform architecture and mechanical behaviour of reinforcements/preforms, General approach to modeling of mechanical properties of reinforced composites, Representative volume element (unit cell) of composites, description of the unit cell geometry as a starting point for prediction of mechanical properties Materials for Solar Energy (611105) The energy problem: causes, scope and scale. Solar Cells. Solar spectrum. Basic semiconductor physics: electron and hole energy bands; p-n junctions; photovoltaic effect, solar cell operation and characteristics; fill factor, efficiency; materials issues in solar cells; emerging solar cell technology; photovoltaic systems; grid tied versus battery backup; assessing energy resources. Electronic and Magnetic Properties of Materials (711141) Semiconductors; binary and tertiary semiconductor materials; single crystal growth techniques; doping profiles; VLSI technology; magnetic moment; classification of magnetic materials; magnetization curves; domain theory; soft and hard magnetic materials; magnetic materials processing; cast and sintered magnets; magnetostriction; metallic and ceramic magnets. Processing of Materials (711132) Introduction to materials processing science with emphasis on heat transfer, chemical diffusion and fluid flow. Synthesis and production of materials with engineered microstructures for desired properties. High temperature, aqueous, and electrochemical processing; thermal and mechanical processing of metals and alloys; casting and solidification; diffusion, microstructural evolution, and phase transformations; modification and processing of surfaces and interfaces; deposition of thin films; solid state shape forming; powder consolidation; joining of materials. Nanotechnology (711139) Introduction. Moore’s Law. Richard Feynman prediction. Size dependent properties at nanoscale. Molecular nanotechnology, Top-down and bottom-up approach; size dependence on properties; materials and processes; silicon technology; semiconductor grade Silicon; silicon single crystal growth and wafer production; photolithography; Soft-lithograhy; clean room; impact of nanotechnology; impact of nanotechnology on information technology, materials and manufacturing, health and medicine, energy, environment, transportation, security and space exploration. Quantum mechanics and nanotechnology. Thin film technology. Bio-Inspired nanotechnology. Impact of nanomaterials. Ethics and dangers of Nanotechnology. Nano-Materials Engineering (711138) Synthesis and characterization of nanoparticles, nanocomposites and other materials with nanoscale features. Nanofabrication techniques. Zero-dimensional nanoparticles. One-dimensional nanostructures e.g. nanotubes, nanorods, nanowires and nanofibers. Two dimensional thin films. Design and properties of devices based on nanotechnology. Importance of nanostructured materials. Structure-property-processing relationship in nanomaterials and uses in electronics, photonics, magnetic applications. Thin Film Technology (711142) Review of vacuum science and technology. Methods of preparation of thin films: electrolytic deposition; cathodic and anodic films, physical vapor deposition. The physics and chemistry of thermal evaporation. Film thicknesses; uniformity and purity, Evaporation hardware and techniques, Glow discharges and Plasmas; sputtering, sputtering processes; laser ablation hybrid and modified PVD processes; chemical vapor deposition: reaction types, thermodynamics of CVD, gas transport, growth kinetics, CVD processes and system. Growth and structure of films; atomistic nucleation processes; post-nulceation growth; film structures; structural aspects of epitaxial films; lattice misfit and imperfection in epitaxial films; Epitaxial Film growth and characterization; amorphous thin films. Spectroscopic Methods (711144) Atomic absorption spectroscopy, UV-VIS spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, Infrared and Raman spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, photoelectron and Auger electron spectroscopy, XPS. Extraction of Materials (611146) Thermochemistry, chemical Equilibrium, melts and solutions, reaction kinetics, reactor design, phase Separation, fuel and ore preparation, reduction of metal oxides, smelting, refining processes, rare and reactive Metals, ferroalloys, hydrometallurgy, electrometallurgy, enthalpies of formation at 25C, enthalpy increments above 25C, standard Gibbs energies of formation and evaporation. Electrochemistry and Corrosion (611214) Electrochemical Concept of Corrosion, Faradaic and Non-Faradaic Processes, Electrical Double Layer, Corrosion Cells, Corrosion Processes, Corrosion circuit, Cathodic and Anodic Reactions, Formation of Solid Products and their importance. Electrochemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics including charge transfer, polarization and mixed electrodes, Interface Potential Difference and Half-Cell, Nernst-Equation, Pourbaix Diagrams. Types of corrosion and their mechanisms, Galvanic Coupling, Corrosion of Active-Passive Metals and Alloys, Anodic Polarization and Passivity, Influence of Environmental Variables. Corrosion Rate Measurements, Tafel Analysis, Polarization Resistance, Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy, Cyclic Polarization Scans. Corrosion of welded structures and Micro-Biological Corrosion with case studies. Semiconductors (711147) Energy band and carrier concentration in thermal equilibrium, carrier transport phenomenon, semiconductor devices: PH junction, Bipolar transistor and related devices, MOSFET and related devices, MESFET and related devices, Microwave diodes, quantum-effect and hot-electron devices, photonic devices Solid State Physics (717405) Crystal vibrations, thermal properties, free electron Fermi gas, energy bands, Fermi surface and metals, superconductivity, diamagnetic and paramagnetism, ferromagnetism and antiferromagnetism, Magnetic resonances, Plasmon’s, Polaritons and Polarons, Optical Processes and Excitons, Dielectrics and Ferroelectrics, Surface and Interface Physics, Non crystalline solids, point defects, Dislocations, alloys Advanced Engineering Mathematics (623205) Vector Calculus, Coordinate system transformation, Power series solution, Special functions, Bessel functions, Legendre polynomials, Laplace and inverse transforms, Solution of linear differential equations by the Laplace transform method, Introduction to PDE’s, Functions of many variables and their geometries Finite Element Methods (714808) Introduction to Finite Element Methods (FEM), mathematics preliminaries, truss analysis, variational and weighted residual formulations, general approach to structural analysis, efficient representation of computational meshes, efficient computation of the element tensor (element stiffness matrix), tensor representation of multilinear forms, Stress analysis for one and two dimensional problems of structures, beam analysis, and ANSYS software for FEA analysis