It gives me an immense pleasure to learn that the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad has re-launched its website which is an informative as well as interactive. The Board should not only conduct the examination at school and college levels but it should take a lead role in education reforms for improving quality of education. Being an alumni of the Board and now its Controlling Authority I feel proud that it has significantly contributed to promoting quailty of education in the province but some how it could not maintain its standard in present time. It gives me immense pleasure to learn that the Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Hyderabad will be launching its website very soon which will provide relevant information to the concerned stakeholder about the Board activities. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate Prof. Dr. Muhammad Memon, Chairman, Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Hyderabad , I am pleased to hear that the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad has revised its website for re-launching, which is an informative and interactive. This is one of the oldest Boards which has produced a large number of its secondary and higher secondary education graduates who have been working in various fields with a greater sense of achievement.with a pace of time there has been some deterioration in quality of examination which has badly affected overall quality of education in the province. The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad is one of the oldest boards in Sindh and it has now entered the twenty-first century which demands promotion of critical thinking skills, creativity, problem-solving skills and information technology literacy. Since its establishment the Board has maintained its transparency and fairness to a great extent in the Secondary , To be a 'Centre of Excellence' in examination and assessment at various levels integrated with technology and informed by research for raising education standard in order to prepare our young generation to serve the nation and compete globally. To conduct fair, transparent and authentic Secondary School Certificate (SSC), Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and other examinations for assessing student learning outcomes which are valued by higher education institutions in and outside the country. Copyright 2017 BISEH, Website Managed by I.T Department BISEH Tender | | | | Model Papers ||| - -