KICSIT provides congenial and disciplined environment with well equipped class rooms and laboratories. Sufficient number of PCs is available in computer labs. Electronics and Physics labs have equipment needed for required experiments and training. There is common room for girls students. Transport Facility is available for students, coming from Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Humak and Kahuta and back on payment of Rs. 5000, Rs.5000, Rs. 3000 and Rs. 2000 respectively per student per semester. Students are picked from specified stops on the specific routs The Institute houses a purposeful cafeteria that caters the needs of students. The cafeteria committee ensures that the food items served at cafeteria are fresh, have variety and are economical. The institute holds a library to provide knowledge and information to the students. The library contains text books, reference books, and periodicals. KICSIT Library has two sections: In Reference section each student can be issued two books at a time. Each book is issued for two weeks. After two weeks, if necessary a book can be reissued for further two weeks. If a book losts, borrower returns the new one or pays the double cost of the book. While in Book Bank, books are issued for a semester in lieu of security which is refundable at the return of semester books. In every semester a book fair is being arranged by KICSIT library. Students can purchase books in book fair on discounted rates. KICSIT Library also contains Newspapers (Daily Times, Daily Dawn, Daily Jang, Daily Express), Different types of Magazines mostly related to Information Technology and Journals about IEEE Transaction and Research and Practice in IT. KICSIT has established a skills development centre to impart training in various application software areas. KICSIT organizes different short courses in technical and non-technical subjects. Skills development centre also conducts short term training on computer literacy and tools. New infrastructure for academic and administration blocks are being constructed at Y-Cross, at the outskirts of KRL premises covering an area of 185 kanals of land. New construction will be completed in next two years. Addition of these blocks will enable KICSIT to run more new disciplines in other different fields.