*Candidates with FSc Pre-Medical / equivalent qualification enrolled in BS Computer Science program will have to clear deficient Mathematics courses of 6 credit hours, within one year Applicants with ICS (Math, Physics & Computer Science) qualification are allowed to apply for all BS engineering programs offered by IST. However, such candidates will be required to study Chemistry as a remedial subject/ course in the 1st semester after admission. A-Level / Cambridge/ Students with any qualification other than FSC/ ICS/ DAE are required obtain equivalent certificate from IBCC according to the eligibility criteria of respective program. Pre-medical students with additional math or appearing for additional math papers this year are eligible to apply in related programs as per eligibility criteria. HSSC/ A-Level/ Equivalent final result awaiting students of “first annual exams only” are eligible to apply. Such applicants, if selected on merit, will be offered provisional admission and they will be required to submit the HSSC Result Card/ Equivalent Certificate (according to the eligibility requirements of respective program) issued by IBCC in Admissions Office before the start of first semester exams/ within 15 days after the announcement of results (whichever is earlier). DAE (3 Years) students possessing complete/ final DAE result are eligible to apply in related programs as per eligibility criteria. International applicants are also required to fulfill other requirements laid down by the Higher Education Commission (HEC) for the admission of international students in Pakistani Higher Education Institutions/ Universities. In accordance with normal policy in admission matters, the completion of admission requirements within due date shall be the sole responsibility of the student, and non-compliance with the requirements shall result in termination of the admission at the risk and cost of the student. The institute reserves the right to discontinue any portion or make amendments in General Eligibility Criteria at any time without notice. It is the responsibility of the candidate/ applicant to provide the required academic record/ certificates in time to the University, as per the deadline. The University reserves the right to drop any program, if number of candidates are less than the sufficient number to offer the program.