20 Jan 2021: Director WiSP Lab, Dr. Farrukh Aziz Bhatti recently gave interview to ProUrdu news portal and he discussed about some of the technology fields that are in high demand, the evolving job market due to diffusion of technology and the need for developing skillsets to cope with the changing market needs. He also discussed about the projects being done in WiSP and iVISION labs and the kind of scrutiny done when hiring engineers and researchers for the industry projects being done in these labs. 07 Oct 2020: Dr. Syed Ali Irtaza has recently returned back from South Korea after completing his PhD from Hanyang University. He delivered a talk in WiSP Lab and discussed his research work about Multi-User Detection Techniques for Grant-Free Access in 5G Massive Machine Type Communications. Massive machine type communications (MMTC) framework targets the wireless connectivity of the autonomous devices in the 5G network. There are many challenges that need to be addressed and much effort is required to completely harness the benefits of 5G MMTC as the behavior of the autonomous devices is quite different form the existing human-centric devices. Therefore, in his talk efficient techniques were introduced to enhance the MMTC communications. One of the proposed technique introduce was to use the pilot and data symbols, and the other techniques include the use of prior information and exploit the inherent structure among the devices’ activity pattern. Finally, computationally efficient algorithms were discussed for the detection of multiusers in 5G network. 30 Jan 2020: Dr. Zaineb Farooq discussed her recently completed PhD work on the topic - Precise localization using Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS). She discussed the concept of positioning using GNSS measurements. The prevalent schemes for precise positioning using GNSS measurements, namely Precise Point Positioning (PPP) and Real Time Kinematic (RTK) were introduced. This was followed by the problem of cycle slips in RTK and ways to mitigate it. Using single frequency GNSS receivers, it was seen that once cycle slips are detected and corresponding measurements taken care of, cm level positioning accuracy can be achieved. Finally, the applications of low cost single frequency receivers in precise positioning were presented. The talk was followed by an interactive discussion on other use cases including indoor localization etc. 06 Jan 2020: Dr. Adeel Razi gave a talk on Neuroscience-inspired Artificial Intelligence. Dr. Razi is an Australian Research Council DECRA Fellow at the Monash University and he is actively collaborating on many computational neuroscience projects with Dr. Sadia Shakil. He explained brain’s anatomy and described how the data gathered non-invasively from the brain is often caused by more than one phenomenon inside the brain. Consequently, the relationship between the brain data and its cause can be one-to-many and more than one mathematical model can fit the data. He then explained the way in which Dynamic Causal Modeling (DCM) is used to find the best models for data fitting. In the next part of his talk, described active inference that is an approach to understanding behavior that rests upon the idea that the brain uses an internal generative model to predict incoming sensory data. He concluded the talk by showcasing recent developments in in-vitro active inference leading towards a proof of principal showing that cultured neurons in a lab can be trained to play a game of pong. The talk was followed by interactive discussion and Q&A session. 02 Nov 2019: Dr. Majid Butt gave a seminar about UE Positioning in a Dense 5G Millimeter Wave Deployment using Supervised Deep Learning. He discussed about some of the key performance metrics of 5G, such as, ultra reliable low latency communication (URLLC) with reliability requirements of >99% and latency requirements of a few milliseconds. He compared conventional positioning indoor positioning schemes with Machine Learning-based positioning while explaining how well can machine learning in a 5G base station (gNB) predict UE positions using available 5G NR CSI report. He then concluded that a combination of serving and neighboring cell beam reports should be used with at least 2 beams coming from the serving cell and at least one from the neighboring cell. The initial results indicate that this approach can give a localization accuracy of a few meters in the indoor environments. The talk was followed by an interactive discussion and QA session. 29 Aug 2019: EE-14 students Ali Yaseen and Sultan Khan were awarded best final year project Gold Medal at the IST convocation on 29 Aug 2019. The project was titled “Design and formal verification of motion detection using LoRA (Low Range) WAN” and was supervised by Dr. Sobia Jangsher. The project successfully demonstrated indoor localization (without GPS) using LoRA access points. 30 Jan 2019: A team of researchers from Military College Signals (NUST) visits WiSP Lab for collaboration on Software Radio projects.