Several elite National Research & Development (R&D) organizations provide sponsorships to the deserving BS students of selected programs after test/interview. The sponsorship covers tuition fee and a guaranteed job after graduation, provided all requirements of the sponsoring organization are fulfilled by the candidate. IST offers merit scholarships to three students (excluding sponsored students) in each discipline as per the existing policy. Scholarships are granted on the basis of admissions merit and semester results. Below mentioned criteria shall be followed for the award of merit scholarships to BS students of each batch of each undergraduate program offered by IST:- GENERAL CONDITIONS: IST offers merit scholarships to two students (excluding sponsored students) in each discipline as per existing policy. Scholarships are granted on the basis of semester results. Below mentioned criteria shall be followed for the award of merit scholarships to students of each batch of each MS program offered by IST:- GENERAL CONDITIONS: Higher Education Commission (HEC) with the support of Government of Pakistan has launched “EHSAAS Undergraduate Scholarship Project” for the qualified students from low income families to complete undergraduate studies (Four-Five-year Bachelor programs) from public sector Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) of Pakistan, Azad Jammu & Kashmir, and Gilgit Baltistan. The principle objective of the EHSAAS Undergraduate Project is to provide assistance to the maximum number of students who have secured admission to the universities in various disciplines but lack of financial means to continue their studies. The needy students admitted in IST are informed to apply for EHSAAS Scholarship as and when announced by HEC. Pakistan has no shortage of talented youth, but in several instances, lack of resources prevents them from realizing their potentials. This becomes more problematic when it comes to accessing higher education. The Government of Pakistan acknowledges these constraints and has tasked Higher Education Commission to facilitate the needy and deserving students through Need Based Scholarships. Scholarships are announced for financially disadvantaged students of as many as 94 public sector universities and their campuses. The needy students admitted in IST are informed to apply for HEC Need Based Scholarship after the completion of admission process subject to availability of funds/seats. The Punjab Educational Endowment Fund (PEEF) under guidance of the Board of Directors is providing opportunities to the talented but needy students to fulfill their dreams and aspirations and at the same time to become partner in the development and welfare of Pakistan. The PEEF, since its inception in 2009 has awarded more than 374,000 scholarships to students of Punjab and other provinces which are currently pursuing education through public and private sector institutions. Needy students, admitted in IST, can also apply for this scholarship. The details are available at Interest free loans are also provided to IST students by National Bank of Pakistan (NBP). The process to apply for loan and other details are available at