Mega Events, Students Results Declaration, Medal Award Ceremony. Students are liable to submit their Enrolment form at the Web Portal of BIEK by following the instructions Student must signup first with unique ID and then enter in the enrolment system for enrolment process. Please go through the instruction before proceeding for smooth processing Instiutions/Colleges are liable to follow the above instructions and submit their student forms at BIEK. It is to inform that the Board has privilege and moving towards to the digitization in order to facilitate students to submit their enrolment form online It is to inform that TCS now become our official partner, now all forms of the Board except examination forms shall be submitted along with fee at TCS Outlets or desks. This facility is available in very economical amount and you dont need to come at BIEK. DOWNLOAD ALL TYPE OF FORMS For the Convenience of Candidates, all types of forms are available. Announcement of Annual Result HSC Part II 2023. I heartily felicitate Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon, Chairman BIE Karachi, under whose dynamic and dedicated leadership the Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has made remarkable progress and distinguished itself as an organization excelling in integrity, dexterity and commitment to the cause of promoting merit in the conduct of HSSC Exams. Well done! Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon! I wish you Godspeed in al your target-oriented pursuits and lofty goals. I heartily felicitate Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon, Chairman BIE Karachi, under whose dynamic and dedicated leadership the Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has made remarkable progress and distinguished itself as an organization excelling in integrity, dexterity and commitment to the cause of promoting merit in the conduct of HSSC Exams. Well done! Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon! I wish you Godspeed in al your target-oriented pursuits and lofty goals. I heartily felicitate Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon, Chairman BIE Karachi, under whose dynamic and dedicated leadership the Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has made remarkable progress and distinguished itself as an organization excelling in integrity, dexterity and commitment to the cause of promoting merit in the conduct of HSSC Exams. Well done! Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon! I wish you Godspeed in al your target-oriented pursuits and lofty goals. The Board has announced to get any type of form Online, from official website of the Board http://www.biek.edu.pk Get or Model Paper MODEL PAPER uploaded for convience to candidate for understanding of new Paper Pattern Since 2017 Now you can submit any type of fee at at any UBL Branch or TCS Outlets of Karachi City and there is no need to come Board Physically. 2022 Model Papers are also available, please download Board of Interemdiate Education Karachi has introduced a unique and advanced vertificaiton system for any type of testimonial/documents, which is provided from the Board. The system introduces a Verification Sticker, where each Sticker has is unique and Secure ID on it and it has been printed from Pakistan Printing Press on Specific Paper and code. So if any Entity found the verification document from Jan 2019 without sticker from BIEK, is might be fraud or fordged documents Board of Intermediate Education Karachi is now developed an One Pager Form, which can be downloaded and easy to get. Each Specific Form has showing its requirements of documents and Fee structure as well. The different forms are for different purpose. Now Examinations, Enrolments, Registrations, and all type of Forms with Faculties/Group are available of all type of Students or candidates Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has introduced a Online Banking System, Now you can submit the fee at any UBL Branch in Karachi City, where the list of Banks is also mentioned above, the service will facilitate the candidate to submit any type of fee at their nearest Bank of UBL (United Bank Limited). The Voucher may also get from our Website, So there is no need to go bank and filled the voucher, you may just download and filled and submit it on the nearest bank of UBL (United Bank Limited) Board of Intermediate Education IT department has devised the International pattern of Marksheet, Migration Certificate, Provisional Certificate and Final Certificate. So according to International Standards the documents are updated and completed the required International Requirements of other International Bodies, This all changes and updation are made from the approval of Competent Authorities. Board of Intermediate Education Karachi is one Board, which is working according to the International Criteria. Every year conducting about 375,000 candidates Examination!, Assessments & Results Meeting regarding overall working and performance of the Boards, chaired by Mr. Khalid Haider Shah, Secretary Universities and Boards Department, Govt. of Sindh on 4th September 2023. Present on this occasion were Chairman, Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi and other Chairmen of Sindh Educational Boards. Honorable Chairman BIEK Mr. Saleem Rajput conducting meeting with SSEIP Project People and discussing about the reforms of Examination system Governor of Sindh, Mr. Kamran Tessori visited Board of Intermediate, Karachi and meet the senior officers of the Board. Mr. Saleem Rajput (Chairman) give the honor and give the presentation to Governer for information regarding examination system as well the complete procedure of result development and maintaining its secrecy and transparency. Governer of Sindh, Mr. Kamran Tessori visited Board of Intermediate, Karachi and meet the senior officers of the Board. Mr. Saleem Rajput (Chairman) give the honor and give the presentation to Governer for information regarding examination system as well the complete procedure of result development and maintaining its secrecy and transparency. Governer of Sindh, Mr. Kamran Tessori visited Board of Intermediate, Karachi and meet the senior officers of the Board. Mr. Saleem Rajput (Chairman) give the honor and give the presentation to Governer for information regarding examination system as well the complete procedure of result development and maintaining its secrecy and transparency. A team of Gilgit Baltistan visited Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi comprises with Chairman, Director Education Schools and Colleges along with Ministers to understand the system of Examination Conduction of BIEK. Head of IT, M. Shaheer Waqar, Zareena Rashid Dy. Controller Breif about the System under the supervision of Honorable Chairman Mr. Saleem Rajput. The Team of Gilgit Baltistan grateful to Chairman and other officers of the Board. A team of Gilgit Baltistan visited Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi comprises with Chairman, Director Education Schools and Colleges along with Ministers to understand the system of Examination Conduction of BIEK. Head of IT, M. Shaheer Waqar, Zareena Rashid Dy. Controller Breif about the System under the supervision of Honorable Chairman Mr. Saleem Rajput. The Team of Gilgit Baltistan grateful to Chairman and other officers of the Board. 9221-99260213 © 2024 Board of Intermediate Education Karachi - Pakistan. All rights reserved. Board of Intermediate Education Karachi On 8 January 1962, the then West Pakistan government promulgated an ordinance known as “West Pakistan Board of Intermediate and secondary education Karachi Ordinance number III of 1962”. By this ordinance, designation of the President of the Board was changed as Chairman and Higher Secondary Education, previously known as Intermediate Education, was transferred from the University to the Board to implement the recommendations of the commission. professor Qaiser Hussain Khan Bakhtiari president of the Board of the secondary education was appointed as first Chairman of the board intermediate and secondary education Karachi. He took over the charge of Higher Secondary Education from Dr. Ishtiaq Hussain Qureshi, then Vice-Chancellor of the University of Karachi, on 2nd November 1961.