Engineer Registration Portal is under maintenance (portal.pec.org.pk). All dependent services may face outages. Pakistan Engineering Council Pakistan Engineering Council During UN COP28 Climate Conference on Dec 8 2023 in DubaiInternational Code Council (ICC) honored Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) with the ICC Global Award-2023 during United Nations COP28 Climate Conference in Dubai on Friday, December 8th 2023. A four member PEC delegation led by its Chairman Engr. Muhammad Najeeb Haroon, Dr. Nasir Mahmood Khan, Registrar PEC, Prof. Dr. Sarosh Hashmat Lodi, Convener PEC Technical Committee and Mr. Faiz ul Sibtain Secretary to Committee PEC/ Focal Person to ICC participated the event. Marisa Lago, Under Secretary US Department of Commerce along with Judy Zakreski, Senior Vice Presidentof ICC Global Operations… Proposals are invited for IT equipment, office furniture, and solarization… “In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.I extend my heartfelt congratulations to Chairman, Pakistan Engineering Council Engr. Muhammad Najeeb Haroon, who is also a member of the National Assembly, for the successful launch of the Pakistan Engineer Parliamentarians Caucus. It is delighted to hear that Senator Engr. Rukhsana Zuberi has been appointed as its first Convener, having previously served as the Chairperson of the Pakistan Engineering Council. She has proven to be an exceptionally efficient and effective Senator. On this momentous occasion, I would like to extend my felicitations to all the Engineers of Pakistan and our esteemed Engineer Parliamentarians. With the establishment of this Caucus, Insha’Allah I am confident that the Parliamentarian, in collaboration with this Caucus, will play their pivotal role in shaping policies for the betterment of Pakistan and fostering the engineering profession/sector in future. Once again, I commend you on taking this excellent initiative. Thank you” My Dear Engineers,Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) is a statutory regulatory body established in 1976 under an Act of Parliament to regulate the engineering profession across the country and performing its functions as an autonomous body with the vision that the engineering profession shall function as a key driving force for achieving rapid and sustainable growth in all national, economic and social fields. In line with the vision of the Government of Pakistan, PEC is striving utmost to improve quality of engineering education, accreditation and professional system, synchronizing with best international standards and practices recognized by prestigious engineering Institutions/ Accords and Organizations. PEC has made concerted efforts for its outreach and international visibility, therefore, entered into various international Accords/ Agreements like Washington Accord (WA), International Professional Engineers Agreement (IPEA), Federation of Engineering Institutions of Asia and the Pacific (FEIAP), Federation PEC encourages engineers to actively participate in their career growth by joining CPD courses. The calendar shows list of scheduled CPD activities by PEC and authrized Professional Engineering Bodies (PEBs). Please browse the calender to view CPD activites. Clicking on any date which navigate you to the detail of clicked CPD activity. Glimpse of all the recent happenings in the environment of Pakistan Engineering Council. Pakistan Engineering Council HEAD OFFICE: Pakistan Engineering Council, Attaturk Avenue (East) G-5/2, P.O. Box: 1296, Islamabad UAN: (+92-51) 111-111-732 PABX: (+92-51) 9219500, 9206974 Regional Office, Karachi ST-14/A, Block-2, Kehkashan-V, Clifton, Karachi. Phone: (+92-21) 99250216 Regional Office, Peshawar Plot No 18-B/1, (Office Enclaves), Phase V, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Phone: (+92-91) 9217880 Regional Office, Lahore 2-3 M, Civic Center, Model Town Extension, Lahore. Map Location: F8J6+PX6 Lahore Phone: - Regional Office, Quetta Main Samungli Road (southern side), Quetta. Phone: (+92-81) 2871673 Quick Links Portals © All Rights Reserved