The Masters of Sciences in Computer Science (MSCS) Degree program is spread over two academic years(minumum). The minimum duration for completion of Master of Science in Computer Science degree is two (02) years. As per HEC guidelines, the Department of Computer Science, allows a maximum period of four (04) years to complete Master of Science in Computer Science degree requirements. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. Spring Semester: Fall Semester: Each semester comprises of sixteen weeks of teaching. The medium of instruction at KICSIT is English. Working Days: Timings: These timings may change as per requirement of the Institute. Each semester is followed by a few weeks inter-semester break for the preparation of semester results and for students to recreate and prepare for next semester. KICSIT is a Campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST). All admissions to KICSIT are subject to the approval of IST, these are finalized by issuance of Registration Numbers from University. A candidate seeking admission in MSCS Program should fulfill the following requirements: A student selected for admission having deficiency in the above stated courses may be required to study a maximum of FOUR courses, which must be passed in the first two semesters. Deficiency courses shall be determined by the Graduate Coordinator of Department of Computer Science (KICSIT), before admitting the student. The deficiency credit hours will not be counted towards the minimum credit hours requirement for the award of Master of Science in Computer Science. To become eligible for award of Master of Science in Computer Science degree, a student must satisfy the following requirements: Admission shall be granted absolutely on merit which will be determined on the basis of marks obtained in the following examinations, and according to the weightage mentioned against the respective examination: *These applicants can apply for non-engineering programs only Notes: