Electro-Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) is the branch of Electrical Engineering concerned with unintentional generation, propagation and reception of Electro-Magnetic Energy which may cause unwanted effects such as Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI) or even physical damage in Operational Equipment. An exponential growth has been witnessed in the Professional Prowess of Pakistani Engineers in a multitude of spheres during recent couple of decades. Owing to a number of higher education scholarships, we now have numerous engineers with doctorate degrees. Contributions in research work have flourished and engineering development has grown manifold. However, one sphere where skills are lacking is the transformation of conceptual designs and laboratory models into market ready products. This attribute is largely dependent upon practical experience and cannot be attained through academic knowledge alone. One key component in this aspect is the Electro-Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) Compliance. The EMC compliance is a mandatory requirement for all Electronics / Electro-Mechanical products in Military and Commercial spheres, not just to fulfill regulatory obligations but to ensure that the product performs as envisaged in all possible Electro-Magnetic Environment conditions. We offer efficient, broad range EMC Solutions by highly experienced professionals by Identifying potential EMC problems early in the design process and stage-by-stage depiction of products potential EMC-related design flaws. This helps in avoiding inconvenient and costly product redesigns at the final phase of the design plan. Owing to the experience and knowledge base available with Department of Avionics Engineering, a venture has been launched with an endeavor to make EMC related testing and skills available nationwide. In line with the core engineering domain of the department, Aerospace Electromagnetic analysis, test plans and Electro-Magnetic Interference mitigation is a distinctive feature of the facility.