The Department of Electrical Engineering runs internationally recognized academic program in Electrical Engineering (EE) and Computer Science (CS) with different specializations at undergraduate and graduate levels. The department was established in 2002 and started offering degree in Communication Systems Engineering (CSE). In 2009, keeping in view the expanding focus, the department was renamed as Electrical Engineering Department. The Department consists of experienced faculty, well-equipped classrooms and state-of-the-art lab facilities. The department provides continuous academic improvement through consultation with faculty, industry, electronics & communication engineering professionals and students. The focus of the courses is on the design, analysis, development and testing of communication & electronic systems encompassing latest international research trends. The curriculum of Electrical Engineering is designed to provide all-rounder experience to students in fundamental principles and application of electronics, embedded systems, signal analysis, electromagnetic, antennas, digital communications, digital signal processing, image processing, wireless technologies, fiber-optics and satellite systems. The curriculum provides the students a chance to study a variety of courses over the period of four years. The curriculum of Computer Science is designed to provide in-depth knowledge about the field of computing and related interdisciplinary areas. The students will be able to gain practical knowledge and hands-on experience in the areas like artificial intelligence, image processing, mobile application development, big data analytics, social network analysis, computer architecture and Internet of Things (IoT). The program of computer science will allow the students to involve themselves in the solution development of the real-world problems and open the opportunities for the students as potential candidates for private or public sector organization, freelance developers and entrepreneurs.