National Aptitude Test (NAT) is for admissions in NTS™ associated universities / DAIs (degree awarding institutes). The candidates will appear in a single test only and will stand eligible for admission to all universities in the respective subject group. The candidates will be required to apply for admission in the universities as per their respective announcements along with a copy of the NTS™ result card. * The result of the NAT test will be valid for "ONE YEAR". Dr. Douglas Trimble, Director of Assessment and Institutional Research Forman Christian College University. Comparing the NAT to the SAT (in the USA), we see that it fares very well at Forman Christian College: it correlates .36 with first year GPA (FYGPA), which is the same as the SAT (.35). Despite the lack of systematic predictive validity analysis of the NAT, it does appear to have good predictive validity. Because SAT and high school GPA correlate only .28, Korbin, Patterson, Shaw, Mattern, and Barbuti (2008) concluded that they appear to be measuring distinct aspects of academic promise and both can yield valuable information. The same appears to be the case with the NAT, which only correlates .27 with the composite BISE total; thus BISE and NAT are helpful. FYGPA is the first year grade point average after two semesters of university work. SAT™ is the combined Critical Reading, Mathematics, and Writing sections. The NAT was combined statistically with the BISE exams or A Level exam by converting them z-scores. Data from the USA was reported in Korbin, J. L., Patterson, B. F., Shaw, E. J., Mattern, K. D., & Barbuti, S. M. (2008). Validity of the SAT for predicting first-year college grade point average (Research Report No. 2008-5). New York: College Board. Retrieved May 21, 2009 from The predictive power of using the composite BISE to predict FYGPA (r = .46) is similar to the SAT™ and high school GPA (.46) to predict FYGPA. By adding the NAT and BISE Composite together to predict FYGPA, then the correlation increases to .49. The NAT likewise increases our FYGPA predictive precision when it is combined with the A Level exam results from .37 to .48. We have therefore decided to use an equally weighted combination of NAT and BISE score (or A Level marks) to make admissions decisions. Schedule of National Aptitude Test (NAT) 2024 Apply on NTS online Registration Portal Schedule 2024: District list of Pakistan: Please find your Correspondance City District from the Districts List given below and write it in the box of Correspondance City District in your NAT Registration Form. The candidate is required to register for appearing in the respective test as scheduled by NTS™. The registration process is given below: Register (one time only) to NTS online Registration Portal Upload a recent photograph in NTS online Registration Portal. -Apply for latest NAT test in the list of projects announced in NTS online Registration Portal. Download NAT bank deposit slip from NTS online Registration Portal (Bank deposit slip is available on NTS online Registration Portal only) Deposit Rs. 850/- (Rupees Eight Hundred & Fifty Only) for NAT test via 1Link 1Bill Participating Banks/ATM/Internet Banking/Mobile Banking/EasyPaisa/JazzCash/TCS Express Counters. (See bank service charges on deposit slip). * All candidates are required to provide their photographs with full face exposure. Please follow these Instructions carefully 13 compulsory test cities are in red color. Optional test cities are in black color, subject to a minimum of 100 registered fee paid candidates.