The mission of aerospace engineering program is to prepare technically strong engineers for wide ranging careers such that they can contribute effectively towards the nation, society, and aerospace industry through innovation, research, entrepreneurship, leadership, technology and healthy life-long learning attitude. Aerospace is the human effort in science, engineering and business to fly in the atmosphere of Earth (aeronautics) and surrounding space (astronautics). Thus it is a field where state-of-the-art technologies are applied every day. It is an exciting profession with outstanding career opportunities in which physical sciences, mathematics and computers are combined in the design of air and space vehicle systems and components to achieve high performance with limited size and weight. This requires aerospace engineers to constantly develop and apply the most advanced technologies in research, design, manufacturing, operation, or maintenance of an Aerospace Vehicle. Aerospace technology has grown out of the problems of design, construction, and operation of vehicles that maneuver above the Earth’s surface (vehicles ranging from ground-effect machines and helicopters to aircraft and spacecraft). Design of such vehicles has always been challenging, not only because of the requirement that they operate in a hostile environment, but also the high premium placed on light weight, high efficiency and great reliability. These requirements apply not only to future spacecraft and high performance transport aircraft, but also to the next generation of ground transportation, such as high-speed trains, over-water transportation, and automated motor vehicles. Aerospace engineering degree program provides graduates with the technical foundation they need to enter the field of Aeronautics & Astronautics. It will prepare them to apply engineering principles, processes and practices to evaluate, analyze, design and develop aerospace systems, and their maintenance. Focused on the field requirements for airborne/spaceborne platforms, the four-year program encompasses the study of aerodynamics, propulsion, aerospace structures, flight dynamics, navigation guidance and control with application of knowledge during aerospace vehicle design. The program imparts knowledge of basic engineering technology as well as practical knowhow for readiness of engineers to cope up the challenges being faced by organizations in Aerospace industry. The field of aerospace technology offers a wide range of employment opportunities to those with the proper educational background. An aerospace team is made up of engineers, scientists, and technicians. Positions are available through the private sector as well as within the government sector. Examples of major engineering roles in the aerospace industry include: