Beginners, students, experts, engineers, makers, artists, storytellers -- Space Apps is for you! We welcome all passionate problem solvers to join our community of innovators. Citizens like you have already created thousands of open-source solutions together through code, data visualizations, hardware and design. How will you make your global impact?
The Institute of Space Technology (also known as IST) (Urdu: ادارہ خلائی ٹیکنالوجی) is a public university located in Islamabad, Pakistan. It is focused on the study of astronomy, aerospace engineering, avionics engineering and astronautics. [2]

Established in 2002 under the auspices of the Pakistan's National Space Agency (SUPARCO). IST offers a wide array of undergraduate and graduate degrees in partnership of Beihang University and University of Surrey.[2] Since 2008, IST has an ISO certified management standard. IST is based on a 573 acre campus on the outskirts of Islamabad.[2][3] It is one of the top institutions as ranked by the Higher Education Commission.[4] Materials Inspection, Testing, and Characterization of Materials, a three-day workshop, was organised from March 8–10, 2022 at the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, (IST) Islamabad.[5]

ICUBE - IST CubeSat Program
Main articles: ICube-1 and ICUBE-Q
Institute of Space Technology on 21 November 2013, launched Pakistan's first Cubesat satellite, ICUBE-1, onboard Dnepr launch vehicle from Yasny launch base, Russia. Its transmitted signal can be heard on VHF band. It has a mass of 1.1 kg & has a volume of 10 cm cube, it houses several sensors to collect data for scientific purposes. ICUBE-1 is a fully autonomous satellite and is capable of maintaining its health via its on-board computer. ICUBE-1 will open up a wide range of future experiments that can be carried on Cubesat in the domain of imaging, microgravity, biology, nanotechnology, space dynamics, chemistry, space physics and various other fields.[6][7][8] Currently IST is working on historic Lunar CubeSat ICUBE-Q in collaboration with Shanghai Jiao Tong University China. ICUBE-Q is set to be launched via Chinese Chang'E6 lunar mission in 1st week of May 2024.

Academics
Degree programs
The disciplines and the degree programs offered by IST have been given below. The regular duration of BS and MS / M Phil degree programs is 4 and 2 years, respectively.

Discipline	Degree Program
Aerospace Engineering Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil, Ph.D.
Avionics Engineering Department offers BS / BE
Electrical Engineering Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil, Ph.D.
Materials Science & Engineering Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil, Ph.D.
Mechanical Engineering Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil, Ph.D.
Computer Science Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil
Space Science Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil, Ph.D.
Mathematics Department offers BS / BE, MS / M Phil, Ph.D.
Physics Department offers BS / BE
Departments
At present, the institute holds the following Departments there are 9 departments in total that names are:

Aeronautics & Astronautics
Electrical Engineering
Applied Mathematics & Statistics
Materials Science & Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Space Science
National Centre for Remote-Sensing & Geo-Informatics
Humanities & Sciences
Avionics Engineering 
Annual events
IST Youth Carnival (IYC)
It was called as "All-Pakistan Inter University Challenge". IST has organized the Challenge every year for four years. The event attracts participation from the universities/degree awarding institutes/post-graduate colleges in the Rawalpindi/Islamabad area as well as from the cities of Taxila and Peshawar. The event includes over a dozen extracurricular competitions such as dramatics, short film, all-rounder, Mushaira and Battle of the Bands. Recently, the name of this event has now been replaced by IST Youth Carnival, or IYC.[21][22]

World Space Week.[23]
In 1999, the United Nations General Assembly declared 4–10 October as World Space Week. Pakistan is endeavoring to enter into the realm of Space Science & Technology and related applications. In past couple of decades IST has seen considerable advances in this field. The success of any space program relies greatly on public understanding and support. IST in collaboration with our National Space Agency (SUPARCO) is communicating the benefits of Space Technology to the public on regular basis. The institute has pioneered the observation of the International World Space Week in Pakistan. Walks, lectures and seminars are arranged in schools and colleges of the Twin-City area by students of IST. The week culminates with a full day variety show at the Institute that includes space quiz, poster competitions, space cinema and a musical concert.

IST Culture Fest
IST Culture fest is one of its kind two days event held at IST in June 2022. The event consisted of series of fun-filled and interesting events including Concert, Mushaira, Dramy-Bazian and Voice Alpha.

Extracurricular
Societies
ArtIST: promotes the spirit of Art among engineers by organizing painting, sketching, rebel pen, truck art, craft exhibition & Visage Canvas competitions.
IST Youth Club (IYC): IST YOUTH CLUB formerly known as Iqbal Youth Club is one of the most senior society of IST which deals with Ilm-o-adab and character building of the Youth. It covers all the national days of Pakistan by doing overwhelming events for the motivation of youth. Moreover, it also covers the competitions and events referred by Higher Education Commission (HEC). IYC is contributing its best to let the youth know about their culture and make themselves a worthy citizen.
Hawks Adventure: It is the most famous and active adventure club of Islamabad.
Aero Society: for students interested in hobby projects/research related to Aerospace.
Communication Society: for students interested in hobby projects/research related to Communications,
Material Advantage Chapter: for students interested in hobby projects/research related to Materials Science.
IST Media Club: It consists of a team of photographers, graphic designers, video editors, programmers, digital artists, writers and social media experts whose job is to market and publicize the events and happening in IST.
Pegasus: a bi-monthly, bilingual (English/Urdu) magazine that encourages students to hone their literary skills.
News Corridor: campus newsletter covering happenings in the institution.
Fidens: The Adventure Club - for outdoor enthusiasts.
I4Gx : E-Gaming Society
AOUJ: Performing Arts Club - for the promotion of drama, acting and dance.
Sports Society: oversees the inter-university and intra-university sports fixtures.
Umeed: a philanthropic organization that helps underprivileged students in the Twin-City area.
Blood Donor Club: organizes an annual blood donation camp.
Environmental Club: raises awareness and takes concrete measures for environmental protection.
MATHEMA: The mathematics society of IST - Aims to provide enrichment and challenges for students of IST who demonstrate strong interest in mathematics.
SPAM: Student Magazine,
Goonj: The Music Society - promotes music and music teaching. Arranges musical performances.
Space Society:Promotes research and development in Astronautics, GIS, RS, Satellite Communication and Astronomy
Awaz: The Debating Society- promotes art of public speaking and communication skills of students
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) IST Chapter: Organize technical Competitions, lectures, seminars and workshops in related fields. Participation in intervarsity technical competitions.
IST Robotics Society (IRS):Organize events, workshops, and competitions to promote robotics education and innovation. Members can collaborate on projects, participate in competitions, and attend lectures and workshops to learn more about the field.
iCube-1 is a miniaturised satellite built by the Institute of Space Technology in Pakistan, with an objective to provide a wide range of future experiments in the domain of imaging, microgravity, biology, nanotechnology, space dynamics, chemistry, space physics and various other fields. It can also provide a testbed for developing satellite constellations for specific applications.

Launched in Low Earth Orbit, onboard Dnepr launch vehicle from Dombarovsky, Russia. It houses several sensors to collect data for scientific purposes. iCUBE-1 is a fully autonomous satellite and is capable of maintaining its health via its on-board computer. It is a single-unit CubeSat, cubic in shape with sides of 10 centimetres (3.9 in). Five sides of the satellites carry two triple-junction (ATJ) solar cells, providing the spacecraft with 2 watts of power. Each cell has dimensions of 40 by 80 millimetres (1.6 in × 3.1 in), and at the beginning of operations has an efficiency of at least 27.5% at 25 °C.

iCube-1 carries a camera with a resolution of 640 by 480 pixels. Communications with the ground are achieved through a 435.060 MHz uplink audio frequency-shift keying to provide a datarate of 1,200 bits per second. The 145.947 MHz downlink, which uses binary phase-shift keying, also provides a datarate of 1,200 bits per second. The satellite also carries CW and AX25 beacons. The programme cost around 3-3.5 million rupees.

Spokesperson IST Raza Butt said that it is a positive move for technology in Pakistan. "The world is moving towards miniaturization. The launch cost is significantly low for CubeSats as compared to the bigger satellites. The low cost factor is very attractive for researchers who can test their payloads using these cubesats and then incorporate this technology in their bigger satellites", he commented.

Initially, iCUBE-1 will transmit a Continuous Wave Morse coded beacon with message “iCUBE-1 First CubeSat of Pakistan”. Amateur radio operators have a great opportunity to hear those signals on the VHF band. The satellite will send its health data to ground stations and can also be commanded from Satellite tracking and Control Station at IST.
Enhance the productivity & profitability of your organization with our smart and innovative automation products. Currently serving 50+ leading educational institutions across the region with more than one million active user making us the edtech leader of the country. We are helping improve quality of education by optimizing ongoing operations with our robust , scalable and adaptive software solutions. Years as Market Leader in Edtech Serving Top Institutions We are known in the industry for turning ideas into revolutionary products, providing hassle free support and non-stop innovation. With ever so changing scenarios and challenges, we are always braced up for creating innovative products for everyone. Our aim is to empower your decisions at every level. Got idea? Making healthcare work for everyone. Rethinking infrastructure to deliver better healthcare experiences and outcomes, without compromising on security or compliance so you can change lives for the better. Partnering with research groups and scientists to take innovative ideas to the next level by providing modern digital platform. Emerging as a key player in providing financial solutions for medium and large sized businesses for seamless and secure experience. Integrating artificial intelligence into our systems in order to provide smart and intelligent solutions for better problem solving. Allow yourself to explore a world of possibilities and enhance your career right after graduation. Gain hands-on experience through live projects, structured learning, mentorship and continuous feedback. At alfoze, life is always on the go! We are teaming up with new partners, experimenting technological stuff, and actively contributing to the community.
Or
The aviation training hub stands as a distinctive institution within Pakistan, boasting the unique advantage of possessing an in-campus hangar exclusively dedicated to aircraft maintenance engineering students. This unparalleled resource facilitates a hands-on learning environment, enabling students to gain practical experience and technical expertise. In an industry where precision and skill are paramount, the availability of this hangar ensures that our graduates emerge well-prepared for the challenges of aviation maintenance. This commitment to excellence underscores our institution's commitment to fostering top-tier aviation professionals and contributing to the advancement of the aviation industry in Pakistan and beyond. Aviation Training Hub is the only institute, to have its own in-campus hangar facilities according to the international standards of EASA
Welcome to Aviation Training Hub, a pioneering institution that has been at the forefront of providing exceptional aircraft maintenance education in Pakistan for the past 12 years. With a commitment to excellence and a passion for aviation, we take pride in offering a comprehensive 2-year aircraft maintenance license program. Our highly skilled and experienced instructors ensure that students receive top-notch theoretical knowledge and practical skills, preparing them for a successful career in the aviation industry. Experienced Instructors: Our team of instructors comprises seasoned professionals with extensive experience in the aviation industry. They are dedicated to fostering a supportive and conducive learning environment. State-of-the-Art Facilities: We boast modern training facilities, equipped with cutting-edge technology and aircraft components, enabling students to gain practical exposure on the latest aircraft models. Industry Connections: Over the years, we have established strong connections with aviation companies, airlines, and maintenance organizations. This network provides our students with ample opportunities for internships and future employment. Job Placement Assistance: We take pride in our students’ success, and that is why we offer job placement assistance to help them kickstart their careers in the aviation industry. Commitment to Safety: Safety is at the core of our training programs. We instill a strong sense of responsibility and adherence to safety protocols to ensure our graduates become reliable professionals in the aviation field.
The field of aviation relies heavily on well-maintained aircraft to ensure the safety and efficiency of air travel. Aircraft Maintenance Engineering License (AMEL) plays a crucial role in inspecting, repairing, and maintaining aircraft to ensure their airworthiness. A 2-year license aircraft maintenance engineering program is designed to equip students with the necessary knowledge and skills to pursue a career in this exciting and in-demand field. During the two-year program, students will receive comprehensive training in various aspects of aircraft maintenance and engineering. The curriculum covers a wide range of topics, including aviation regulations, aircraft systems, power plants, avionics, structural repairs, and troubleshooting techniques. Students will also gain hands-on experience through practical training in maintenance facilities and workshops, working on real aircraft and their components. The program typically combines theoretical classroom instruction with practical training, enabling students to develop a solid foundation in aircraft maintenance and engineering principles. They will learn about the intricacies of different aircraft systems, including electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and fuel systems. They will also become familiar with specialized tools, diagnostic equipment, and software used in the industry. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 and B2 with the same level. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 and B2 with the same level. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 and B2 with the same level. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-2 and for Category B2 with level-3. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-2 and for Category B2 with level-3.. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-3 and for Category B2 with level-2. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 and B2 with the same level. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 and B2 with the same level. It has separate papers as MCQs and Essays. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-3. It has only MCQs paper. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-3 and for Category B2 with level-2. It has separate papers as MCQs and Essays. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 and B2 with the same level. It has separate papers for MCQs and Essays. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-3. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B2 with level-3. Mandatory for Part-66 AML Category B1 with level-3. Non-refundable fee paid at the time of admission PKR 150,000 (Four Months Semester) (Total 6 Semesters) PKR 140,000 The complete fee is paid one month prior to the exam € 130 Depends upon the OJT partner and scope, Starting from PKR 8,000
Address: 1, Islamabad Expressway, Islamabad Contact no: 0304 4946777, 0325 4946777 051 8856789 Address: Institute of Space Technology (NCRG-IST) Karachi Campus, Sector 28, Gulzar-e-Hijri, SUPARCO Road, Karachi. Contact no: 0343 8017006, 0343 8017004
Alert: "Please apply via PC or Laptop instead of mobile, while applying via mobile you may face problems." Inter Boards Coordination Commission (IBCC) Don't have an account?
Note - You will see require information on this Page, When you scan IBCC authenticate QR Code. Please send your documents at IBCC for Attestation. Plot No. 25, Street No. 38, I & T Center, G-10/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. verification@ibcc.edu.pk Please send your documents at IBCC for Attestation. Address: Plot No. 25, Street No. 38, I && T Center, G-10/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. For More Information, You can visit IBCC Office, IBCC Website or Contact IBCC UAN Number 051- 111 114 222
INSTITUTIONS ATTENTION:-SECURITY GUIDELINES FOR INSTITUTOIONS NOW YOU CAN PAY FEE ONLINE VIA HBL KONNECT, INTERNET BANKING AND ATM ALSO Complete BAN on the publicity of Question Papers on Social Media NOTE: BOARD WILL ONLY ACCEPT ONLINE CHALLAN FOR ANY KIND OF BOARD FEE ONLINE CHALLAN GENERATOR BOARD WILL ONLY ACCEPT ONLINE APPLICATION FOR NOC FOR ONLINE NOC NOW YOU CAN APPLY ONLINE FOR VARIOUS SERVICES PROVIDED BY BISE SAHIWAL SUCH AS NOC, MIGRATION, RECHECKING, CORRECTION IN RECORD, ATTESTATION, VERIFICATION, DUPLICATE RESULT CARDS / CERTIFICATES, SPELLING CORRECTION etc. © 2012–2024 Board Of Intermediate and Secondary Education Sahiwal
Balochistan Textbook Board is a dedicated organization committed to undertake the publication of quality textbooks in line with the curriculum. these books are the fruits of efforts by renowned educationists and experts. despite our constant endeavours, chances of inadvertent mistakes cannot be ruled out, and there is always room for improvement. therefore, we look forward to valuable suggestions to enhance the quality of the textbooks. “I Do Believe Something Very Magical Can Happen When You Need A Book.” Printing And Publication Of Textbooks From Kachi To XII For The Academic Year … Balochistan Textbook Board Has A Vision Of Nation Building Through Error Free And Quality… The Government of Balochistan is pleased to make the Rules & Regulations …
Pakistan has marked a historic moment with the launch of iCube Qamar, its maiden satellite mission to the moon, aboard China’s Chang’E6 from Hainan. The satellite, developed in collaboration with the Institute of Space Technology (IST), SUPARCO, and Shanghai University, will enter lunar orbit in five days, capturing surface imagery for scientific purposes during its three to six-month stay. Integrated successfully into Chang’e6, iCube-Q carries two optical cameras to photograph the lunar surface, contributing to China’s lunar exploration mission, which aims to collect and study surface samples from the moon’s far side. Pakistan has achieved a historic milestone with the launch of iCube Qamar, the country’s first satellite mission to the moon, from Hainan, China, on China’s Chang’E6. The Institute of Space Technology (IST) website and Chinese state television carried live coverage of the event. According to Dr. Khurram Khurshid, a member of the Institute of Space Technology’s (IST) Core Committee, Pakistan’s satellite, which is being transported by China’s Long March-5 rocket, would enter lunar orbit in five days and stay there for three to six months. He said that various satellite photos of the moon’s surface will be obtained, and Pakistan will then have access to its own satellite imagery of the moon for scientific purposes. The IST planned and produced the satellite in partnership with Pakistan’s national space agency, SUPARCO, and China’s Shanghai University. Two optical cameras are carried by the ICUBE-Q orbiter to take pictures of the lunar surface. ICUBE-Q has now been successfully integrated into the Chang’e6 mission after qualification and testing. China’s lunar exploration mission, Chang’e 6, is the sixth in the series. Chang’6, China’s Lunar Mission, will land on the moon’s far side in order to gather surface samples and transport them back to Earth for more study. The mission is significant for Pakistan since it will also transport a Pakistan CubeSat satellite, iCube-Q, created by IST. CubeSats are primarily designed to enable scientific study, technological development, and educational activities in space exploration. The Balochis­tan Assembly on Monday passed a resolution to form a special committee of the… Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Jiang Zaidong celebrated the 73rd anniversary of China-Pakistan diplomatic relations … Pakistan-China Institute has developed this CPEC Portal as its flagship project, in collaboration with China Radio International, to disseminate information about, and enable stakeholder connectivity with, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.
No media source currently available پاکستان چاند کے مدار میں اپنا کیوب سیٹیلائٹ بھیج رہا ہے۔ یہ چھوٹا سا سیٹیلائٹ چین کے خلائی مشن کے ساتھ تین مئی کو اپنے سفر پر روانہ ہوگا۔ یہ سیٹیلائٹ کیا کام کرے گا اور پاکستان اس سے کیا حاصل کرنا چاہتا ہے؟ جانیے اس رپورٹ میں۔
Status: Inactive, hacked, retitred Is Versus Market Down: No The Versus market team wanted to create a project that would resemble Hansa or Silk Road. But the real VS Market story is developing in another direction… UPDATE 22 Dec 2021 – Versus Market Up and Running! ( The administration of the Versus market characterizes this project as a security-driven onion project. However, the platform does not quite cope with the security issues right now. In this review, we will characterize the current state of the marketplace, mention a few important things about its past and will try to predict its future. From official Versus Market’s statement: Welcome to The Versus Project. The one and only forced multisig marketplace and ever-growing community.We call ourselves The Versus Project because we were are not just another Darknet Marketplace. We are a project focused on building something new and progressive within the Darknet Community. We have noticed that over the past years, the quality of DNM’s has deterioriated. During the “Golden Age” of DNM’s, from SR1 to Agora and Hansa, there was a powerful meeting of counter-culture ideology and technological expertise to create something that changed the internet forever. Over the last few years, however, that has changed. Many of the current generation of DNM’s are fly-by-night “cash grabs” with questionable intentions that will eventually exit scam and are built on publicly accessible and re-used source codes and scripts.We see now that the average DNM user and average DNM vendor is wary of the very DNM’s which they use! Customers and vendors alike have lost trust in the current generation of markets due to the revolving door of exit scams and poor OPSEC.This is where we come in.The Versus Project is here to make a change. Created by a team of experienced, long-time DNM veterans and coded on an entirely original source code, we plan to bring back the Golden Age of DNM’s. Our goal is not to be the biggest market in the DNM world, but instead to be the best and most sophisticated market with the highest standards of customer support, security, vendor quality control, harm reduction campaigns and educational programs.We are a different kind of DNM and being a part of The Versus Project means to become part of the future. The team of this project wanted to recreate the oldschool spirit of such legendary marketplaces as Silkroad or Hansa. These were more than just trading platforms — large dedicated communities shaped around them. So far, it would be premature to speak about the efficiency of the VS market in this aspect. But its team emphasizes that they aim to create a “family business” based on trust and friendly vibes. The project was launched at the beginning of 2019. Soon, it fell prey to DDoS attacks. The harm was so significant that the website had to temporarily close down. Critics would say that Versus market dark web was just another scam. But the administration of the platform promises to relaunch it soon. They share regular updates in their Reddit thread and stay in touch with their network members. So hope is still alive… The official Versus Market Link is pqqmr3pzlmccdks2cwfrwimm6gqp6a2v5rlj5xm6uap4c5pmwo63oiyd.onion If you try to access it, you will need to enter a captcha. Normally, the following mirrors would lead to the versus market tor. Obviously, there are no official subreddits regarding Versus Market. The reason is that any discussion of darknet markets if forbidden on Reddit. So, there a lot of fake reddit pages with Versus Market links and they achieving one simple goal – to steal your funds. Remember, don’t trust any link from Reddit! Please check the project’s Reddit thread from time to time to find the answer to this question. When a newbie signs up for the system, they automatically agree with its terms and conditions. Only the person who created the account is allowed to use it. It is the client’s responsibility to prevent third parties from entering their account and carrying out any activities on their behalf. Also, users should never try to manipulate the search function via keyword stuffing. Vendors should not try to sell the following items on the Versus market. If a user violates these rules, the moderators have a right to ban their account, freeze their funds and donate this money to services that support anonymity. One of the weirdest banned items is garlic bread. The administration prohibits the sale or discussion of this product on the marketplace. This rule usually confuses newbies. They ask, is there a hidden meaning in this phrase? Or is it just a joke? Or is it a metaphor that somehow relates to onion services? This remains a mystery. All members of the community should respect each other’s anonymity. They should be tolerant and polite to each other. Trolling, insults or humiliation is not acceptable on the forums or in private messages. And of course, no one should ever attempt to scam anyone! The administration encourages users to share their unbiased opinions and exchange ideas on the platform — but only in a friendly manner. People should avoid spreading dubious rumors or FUD. Instead, they should focus on such information that would seem interesting and informative to the community. In a normal situation, customers would need to do the following. Most likely, this instruction will remain relevant after the administration relaunches the marketplace. If the client is not happy with the vendor, they can get in touch with the support team. If this is not enough, they can contact the senior moderator. After the support team or the senior moderator make their decision, both the client and the vendor need to agree with it. In Reddit, the Versus market administration shares detailed plans on cybersecurity and privacy issues. These are just a few examples of operational and application security measures that they are planning to implement after the relaunch. Hopefully, at the second attempt, the team will manage to create a sustainable marketplace that will be operating without a hitch. When the customer places an order, it means they agree with the vendor’s terms of service. These rules are published in the vendor’s FAQ. Also, you can send them a personal message. You should never ask for samples unless the vendor offers them on their page. Once the status of the order changes to Accepted, it will be impossible to cancel it and get a refund. Even the support team will not be able to cancel the order manually. It will be canceled only if the vendor fails to process it timely. This marketplace welcomes only vendors with a good reputation. The administration encourages customers to leave feedback about vendors whose services they have used. All reviews need to be objective and rather neutral. If the feedback is too emotional, the administration reserves the right to doublecheck the information to find the truth. Before publicly sharing any negative information, customers should try to discuss the situation with the vendor and come to an agreement. Attention: if the client places too many orders but does not leave feedback, the system might block them. When reviewing the vendors, their clients should never disclose their real geographical location. Unfortunately, at the moment of writing this review, it was impossible to buy anything on the Versus market dark net. The team of the project is teasing some of its features that will become available after the relaunch. In their Reddit thread, you will also discover information about bug bounty and other plans. No list of categories or products is available yet. Only two things can be said for sure about the Versus market right now. Cons Pros Established 2019 URL pqqmr3pzlmccdks2cwfrwimm6gqp6a2v5rlj5xm6uap4c5pmwo63oiyd.onion Short URL dark.pe/vs Support Multisig Yes Security Issues DDoS attacks Active Warnings Yes 2 Factor Authentication Yes Finalize Early Yes Commission 4% Vendor Bond $250 Forced Vendor PGP Yes Total Listings No official information Weekly Business Volume No official information Current Status Up Δ Δ Need drug email me Hi! Email me plz if you are active where you locationed message me on telegram with this username @notescobaa Yes need versus down? cant connect its been like 1+ week Looking for Vendor Drugville!! what market he is on? i can help with any RCs just let us know Looking for lsd
Welcome in Directorate of Curriculum, Assessment and Research Sindh @ Jamshoro. 3rd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) regarding alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Biology for Grade XI to XII with adopted National Standards 2022-23 on 20 to 23 May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 2nd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) for Curriculum Development Library Science Grade XI to XII has been scheduled on 20 to 22 May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 2nd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) regarding alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Physics for Grade IX to XII with adopted National Standards 2022-23 on 21 to 24 May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 3rd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) regarding alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Biology for Grade XI to XII with adopted National Standards 2022-23 on 20 to 23 May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 2nd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) for Curriculum Development Library Science Grade XI to XII has been scheduled on 20 to 22 May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 2nd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Chemistry for Grade IX-X with adopted National Curriculum Standards 2022-23 from 14th to 17th May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 2nd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding alignment of Sindh Curriculum of English for Grade IX-XII with adopted National Curriculum Standards 2022-23 from 15th to 17th May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding Alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Computer Science for Grade IX-XII with adopted National Standards from 29th April to 3rd May 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding Alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Mathematics for Grade IX-XII with adopted National Standards from 29th to 30th April, 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. 2nd Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding Alignment of Sindh Curriculum of Biology for Grade IX-XII with adopted National Standards from 24th to 27th April, 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. An introductory Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding for Curriculum Development of Library Science Grade XI-XII with adopted National Standards of National Curriculum 2022-23 from 24th to 26th April, 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. Meeting of Provincial Review Committee (PRC) Regarding alignment of Sindh Curriculum of English Grade IX-XII with adopted National Standards 2022-23 from 23rd to 26th April 2024 at DCAR Sindh Jamshoro. Model Papers 2023-24 for the subject of (Arabic Grade 6-8 | Computer Science Grade 6-7 | English Grade 4-8 | Islamiat Grade 4-8 | Mathematics Grade 4-8 | Religious Studies Grade 6-8 | Science Grade 4-8 | Sindhi Grade 4-8 | Social Studies Grade 4-8 | Urdu 4-8) download these files from this link... [ https://dcar.gos.pk/Other_Download.html ] After 18th amendment, the Bureau of Curriculum & Extension Wing (BCEW) was restructured and retitled as Directorate of Curriculum, Assessment and Research (DCAR) Sindh Jamshoro with its enhanced institutional capacity, it will encompass the areas; a) devise school education standards in line with guidelines provided by Curriculum 'Policy Wing of the Education and Literacy Department; b) commission evidenced-based research to inform policy, curriculum design, development and review, textbook and learning material development, and assessment of or for learning; c) develop, implement and evaluate curriculum by working closely with Sindh Textbook Board, Directorates of School Education and other related departments; d) review textbooks and learning material for alignment with the school education standards and curriculum goals; e) conduct students' achievement tests at grade 3, 5 and 8; f) promote continuous assessment of students learning across all school levels. Directorate of Curriculum, Assessment & Research Sindh Jamshoro. PO-76000 +092 22 9213406 dcarsindh@gmail.com DCAR Curriculum Bulletin (Newsletter) will be launched on December 06, 2023.
Development / updation and dissemination of standards for Textbooks, Teachers and Assessments Curriculum development & review (including review and approval of textbooks & training manuals) Conduction of teacher assessment/teacher performance evaluation and student assessment (A&E) Initially in 1956, Bureau of Education was established at Federal level and in 1964, Education Extension Centre was established in Abbottabad. After that in 1970, Bureau of Curriculum Development came in to being in Peshawar but it was shifted to Abbottabad 1974. Its status was revised to “Bureau of Curriculum Development and Education Extension Services, N-W.F.P, Abbottabad. In 2001, again its nomenclature was changed to “Directorate of Curriculum and Teacher Education (DCTE), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Abbottabad”. After 18th Constitutional Amendment powers were delegated to the province to review/develop their own curriculum. In this regard, Curriculum and all related activities were entrusted to the Province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The Directorate of Curriculum and Teacher Education, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is competent Authority in pursuance of “Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Supervision of Curricula, Textbooks and Maintenance of Standard of Education Act 2011” hence, mandate of DCTE is to: Pre I-XII Near Government Postgraduate College Mandian, Abbottabad-KP, Pakistan 0
ISLAMABAD: The Institute of Space Technology (IST) would launch a student cube satellite ‘ICUBE-Qamar’ (ICUBE-Q) into the lunar orbit aboard China’s Chang’E-6 Mission from Wenchang space launch site, Hainan in China at 1250 PST, on Friday, May 3, 2024. The launch activity would be telecast live on IST website as well as Institute’s social media accounts. The opportunity to release Cubesat in lunar orbit from Chang-E’6 mission was offered by China National Space Agency (CNSA) through Asia Pacific Space Cooperation Organisation (APSCO) to APSCO member states. After thorough evaluation, Pakistan’s proposal was accepted out of all APSCO member states. Design, development and qualification of ICUBE-Q has been led by faculty members and students of the IST, in collaboration with China’s Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU), and support from the Pakistan National Space Agency SUPARCO. The ICUBE-Q has two cameras as payload for imaging lunar surface. The IST is a federally chartered university that pioneered the development of Cubesats in Pakistan by launching its first Cubesat “ICUBE-1” in low earth orbit in Nov 2013. Keeping this remarkable launch in mind, The News got an opportunity to interview Project Head ICUBE-Q Prof Dr Qamarul Islam. Excerpts from the exclusive interview in the question, answer format are as under: Q: What specific expertise or experience do you bring to this lunar satellite project? Answer: I have more than 25-year international experience of space industry and satellite operators in Europe, Middle East and North America. In terms of Cubesat satellites, we initiated design and development of Cubesats and launched our first Cubesat ICUBE-1 on Nov 21, 2013 in 600-km low earth orbit (LEO) Q: How do you envision collaboration with China, impacting the success of the mission? Answer: In the past two decades, China is the most successful country in carrying out lunar missions. Our close collaboration with the Chinese teams have ensured that all the technical and operational aspects have been thoroughly covered in design and qualification of all subsystems for the successful mission. Q: What unique challenges do you face in launching a satellite to the moon compared to other space missions? Answer: Lunar mission is different in many ways. It requires many customisations of design and development to ensure compatibility with the lunar orbiter. To develop interface and separation mechanisms that meet stringent requirements to minimise any kind of risk to the main mission and ensure success of the mission. Five-day ride to the moon also posed thermal challenges. Weak or almost non-existent magnetic field of the moon prevented use of magneto torques, which we feel on earth for attitude control. In addition, radiation levels are higher at the moon orbit, which reduces the life of the electronic components and can cause problems in computer memory devices data. In addition, the moon gravity model is different, which requires to work out the orbital dynamics accordingly. Q: How do you plan to ensure the satellite’s reliability and functionality in the lunar environment? Answer: Reliability is ensured on component level, subsystems level and overall satellite operational level. Redundancy is built to avoid single point failures and conduct failure mode effect analysis. Qualification testing is done in thermal vacuum chambers, EMI/EMC tests, vibration tests and many such tests are part of procedures to ensure the required reliability. Q: What role do you see the international collaboration playing in the future of lunar exploration and space exploration in general? Answer: We would like to be part of the future lunar exploration and this successful endeavour would pave the way of many future international collaboration that will be beneficial to our younger generation in their motivation to carve a place in space research in the country and humanity in the broader perspective. Q: Would there be any language barriers in working with Chinese counterparts? Answer: China National Space Agency (CNSA) has many international collaborations and nowadays translation tools for text and speech have made things much easier to communicate. We did not face any daunting task due to language barrier when working with Chinese counterparts. Q: Can you outline the key milestones and timeline for the satellite project? Answer: Our initial design and proposal submitted in early 2022, followed by detailed design discussions and reviews, which resulted in the preliminary design review (PDR) in mid-2022, followed by critical design review (CDR), engineering model development and qualification before embarking on flight model development over the total span of two years with many parallel activities for interface, compatibility and deployer tests as well as integrated tests. Q: What safety measures are in place to prevent any mishaps during the satellite’s launch and operation? Answer: Safety is of prime importance for each step of the space system development activity. The processes are defined with minute details to prevent accidents. Proactive measured are adopted to reduce risk while conducting project activities. Q: How will data collected from the satellite contribute to scientific knowledge and exploration efforts? Answer: The data collected will add to the knowledge currently available. Data will be shared with researcher to conduct analysis. Q: What are your long-term goals or aspirations for this collaboration and the broader field of lunar exploration? Answer: This is our first step in lunar exploration with orbital operation and imaging. In future, we foresee further collaboration that would include Lunar landing and robotic missions, in addition to orbital missions Q: Is the IST the only space institute that has collaborated internationally with any space exploration. Answer: In the area of space science, there are other Pakistani universities conducting research. However, the IST is the only university to design, develop and launch Cubesats in low earth orbits and also forged international collaboration for a lunar mission. Q: What significance would the IST have locally and internationally after the launch of the lunar satellite? Answer: There are very few universities in the world which have led a lunar mission. This definitely gives the IST an advantage in doing collaborative work with local and international universities. Q: Would it be monitored from both countries or it would be based in Pakistan only? Answer: Pakistan stations in Islamabad and Lahore will receive telemetry data and send telecommands for the operation of the satellite through Chinese deep space network owing to large distances involved. ISLAMABAD: The months-long bickering between the federal and KP governments over the power arrears thawed on Monday... ISLAMABAD: KP Chief Minister Ali Amin Gandapur can become a key source of engagement between the Imran Khan-led PTI... ISLAMABAD: The NAB Ordinance has been amended, under which the period of remanding accused in the National... RAWALPINDI: Security forces have killed 23 terrorists while five brave soldiers also embraced Shahadat in three... ISLAMABAD/LAHORE: Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif Monday declared May 28 (today) as a public holiday in celebration of... KARACHI: With Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif announcing a public holiday on Youm-e-Takbeer (today) to mark Pakistan’s... LAHORE: After a gap of more than six years, Nawaz Sharif will once again become the president of his party on Tuesday... ISLAMABAD: The government is working on different proposals for salary increases in the range of 10 to 15 percent for...
Note - You will see require information on this Page, When you scan IBCC authenticate QR Code. Please send your documents at IBCC for Equivalence. Plot No. 25, Street No. 38, I & T Center, G-10/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. verification@ibcc.edu.pk Please send your documents at IBCC for Equivalence. Address: Plot No. 25, Street No. 38, I && T Center, G-10/4, Islamabad, Pakistan. For More Information, You can visit IBCC Office, IBCC Website or Contact IBCC UAN Number 051- 111 114 222
The state of AJ&K also established directorate of Curriculum and Research Development (DCRD) which is responsible for curriculum and research development in the State in AJ&K. This directorate is headed by DPI (BPS-20) and assisted by one Deputy Director in supervising 6 districts education Institutes for Teacher Education (3 for males and 3 for females). It also reviews the work of Subject Specialists, and other supporting staff through Deputy Director Training while the Deputy Director (Admin.) supervises the work of Audit, Librarian, Budget and Administrative Officer and Office Superintendent.
MARCH MARCH Review our requirements, policies and code of expected conduct from affiliated schools Results are posted on the AKU-EB website, and can be accessed by both schools as well as individual students AKU-EB Is An Indigenous National Board Of Intermediate And Secondary Education With Affiliated Schools Across Pakistan "{{story.pullQuote}}" {{story.personPullQuote}} , {{story.organizationPersonPullQuote}} Have graduated from AKU-EB during the last 10 years Are trained in subject and pedagogy annually Are developed by the Examination Board each year
The Department of Humanities & Sciences at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) boasts a dedicated faculty with expertise in various fields. Ausima Sultan Malik, the Head of Department, holds a Ph.D. from Foundation University, Islamabad, specializing in Applied Linguistics and Literature. Syeda Aysha Bokhari, an Assistant Professor, also holds a Ph.D. from Foundation University, Islamabad, with a focus on Applied Linguistics and Literature.

Syed Ubaidullah Jamil, another Assistant Professor in the department of Humanities & Sciences, has an MS in Islamic Studies from IIUI, Islamabad, specializing in Aqeedah & Philosophy. Uzma Nasir, also an Assistant Professor, holds an M.Phil. in Linguistics & Literature from Air University, Islamabad, specializing in Linguistics & Literature.

The department's lecturers bring a wealth of knowledge to the table. Ammarah Riasat holds an MS in Clinical Psychology from Bahria University, Islamabad, specializing in Clinical Psychology and Counseling. Ifrah Jamil has an M.Phil. in English Linguistics from Fatima Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi, focusing on Critical Discourse Analysis. Qurat-ul-Ain holds an M.Phil. in American Studies from Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, specializing in English Linguistics and Literature. Sadia Zaheer has an M. Phil in Pakistan Studies from Quaid-e Azam University Islamabad, specializing in Water Resource Management and Freedom Movement in Punjab. Tamkeen Zehra Shah holds an MS in English Linguistics from Foundation University, Islamabad, with a focus on Argumentation Theory and Critical Discourse Analysis. Tehreem Ali has an M.Phil. in English Literature from Fatima Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi, specializing in English Literature.

Brig. Taj Iqbal (Retd), a Consultant in the department, holds an MSc in Applied Psychology from Punjab University, Lahore, specializing in Guidance & Counseling/ Selection and Placement. Each member of the faculty contributes unique perspectives and expertise to the Department of Humanities & Sciences at IST, enriching the academic environment and contributing to the holistic development of students.
Syed Ali Irtaza, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Electrical Engineering from Hanyang University, South Korea. His areas of specialization are Compressed Sensing, Wireless & Mobile Communication.

Ch. Bilal Ahmed Khan, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his PhD in Management Science from Bahria University, Islamabad, an MSc in Management Science from CASE, UET Taxila, and an MSc in Mobile & Distributed Computer Networks from Leeds Metropolitan University, UK. His areas of specialization include Networks, Technology & Innovation Management.

Muhammad Ghayas Uddin, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an M.Phil in Microelectronics Engineering from Punjab University, Pakistan. His specialization is in VLSI Design & Fabrication.

Saima Siddiqui, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her MS in Engineering Management from CASE, Islamabad. Her areas of specialization are Electronics and Engineering Management.

Ahmed Raheeq Sultan, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Information Security from NUST Pakistan. His areas of specialization include Electronic Design, Network Security, Forensics, and Cryptography.

Aima Zahid, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her MS in Electrical Engineering from the Information Technology University of the Punjab. Her areas of specialization are RF and Microwave, and Nanotechnology.

Ali Fahim Khan, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Electrical Engineering from NUST, Pakistan. His specialization is in Signal Processing. He is currently abroad for his PhD.

Ammara Yaseen, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her MS in Data Science from NED University of Engineering and Technology. Her areas of specialization are Data Science and Data Visualization.

Asia Aman, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Electrical Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology. Her area of specialization is Signals and Image Processing.

Faran Mahmood, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his M.Phil in Systems Engineering from the University of Cambridge. His areas of specialization are Systems Engineering and Product Design.

Haroon Ibrahim, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Signal and Image Processing from IST, Pakistan. His areas of specialization are Communications and Signal Image Processing.

Muddser Qammer Raja, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his MS in Electrical Engineering from Abbasyn University, Islamabad. His area of specialization is Electrical Power.

Muhammad Asad, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Computer System Engineering from GIK Institute, Pakistan. His areas of specialization are Data Science, Machine Learning, and Feature Engineering. He is currently abroad for his PhD.

Muhammad Hamza Rafique Bhatti, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his MS in Software Engineering from COMSATS University, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Deep Learning and Machine Learning.

Reeda Saeed is a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her Masters in Computer Science from Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute (GIKI). Her area of specialization is AI in Healthcare.

Muhammad Jaleed Khan, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Electrical Engineering from IST Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Deep Learning, Hyperspectral Image Analysis, and Computer Vision. He is currently abroad for his PhD.

Muhammad Nadeem Yousaf, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his MS in Computer Science from GIK Institute, Pakistan. His areas of specialization are Evolutionary Computing and Information Security.

Natiqa Gul, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Computer Engineering from GIKI. Her areas of specialization are Advanced Machine Learning and Computer Vision.

Saniya Zafar, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Electrical Engineering from IST Pakistan. Her area of specialization is Wireless Communications.

Tayyaba Arshad, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her MS in Data Science from FAST-NUCES Islamabad. Her areas of specialization are Natural Language Processing and Medical Image Processing.

Tufail Sajjad Shah Hashmi, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Computer Science from NUST, Pakistan. His areas of specialization are Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision.

Usman Ali Afzal, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his MS in Electrical Engineering from NUST-SEECS, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Control Systems and Power Electronics.

Zil E Huma, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS in Electrical Engineering from NUST, Pakistan. Her areas of specialization are Electronics and Control Systems.

Asad Ur Rehman, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his BS in Electrical Engineering from Air University, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Electronics and Embedded Systems.

Iqra Saeed, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from IST, Islamabad. Her areas of specialization are Electronics and Embedded Systems.

Meer Hamza Ahmad, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his BS in Electrical Engineering from COMSATS Islamabad. His area of specialization is Embedded Systems.

Muhammad Numan, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the International Islamic University Islamabad and an MS in Electrical Engineering from Muhammad Ali Jinnah University Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Control Systems, Signal Processing, and Embedded Systems.

Haroon Waris, an Adjunct Faculty and a member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his PhD in Embedded Systems from Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), China. His areas of specialization include IP/SoC Design & Verification, Approximate Computing, Hardware Security, AI Hardware Accelerators, and VLSI for Digital Signal Processing and Communications. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Muhammad Yasir Qadri, an Adjunct Faculty and a member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD from the University of Essex, UK. His areas of specialization are Hardware Security and Energy/Performance Optimization in Reconfigurable MPSoC Architectures.

Sajid Baloch, an Adjunct Faculty and a member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his PhD from the University of Edinburgh, UK. His area of specialization is Fault Tolerant IC Design.

Syed Amer Gilani, an Adjunct Faculty and a member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Electronics Engineering from the University of Surrey, UK. His area of specialization is Satellite Systems.

Usman Qayyum, an Adjunct Faculty and a member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his PhD from the Australian National University, Australia. His areas of specialization are Visual-Inertial SLAM and Convex Optimization.

Fahad Al Ghazali, an Adjunct Faculty and a member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds an MS from CASE, UET Taxila. His areas of specialization are Hardware Optimization of Complex Algorithms and High-Level Synthesis.

Muhammad Mohsin Naveed, a Senior Research Associate and Adjunct Faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his BSc in Electrical Engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology Lahore and an MSc in Power Electronics from The University of Nottingham, United Kingdom. His area of specialization is Power Electronics.

Zakir Ur Rehman, a Research Associate and Adjunct Faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a BS in Electrical Power Engineering from COMSATS University Islamabad (Abbottabad Campus). His area of specialization is Power Engineering.
The faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) comprises a distinguished team of professionals with diverse areas of expertise.

Khurram Khurshid, the Head of the Department and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Computer Vision from Paris Descartes University, France. His areas of specialization include Machine Learning, Hyper-spectral Image Analysis, and Document Image Processing. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Qamar ul Islam, a Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his PhD from the University of Surrey, UK. His area of specialization is Satellite Communication and Space Systems.

Rehan Mahmood, an Associate Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Satellite Communication from Beihang University, China. His specialization is in Spacecraft Engineering.

Adnan Zafar, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned his PhD in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Surrey, UK. His area of specialization is Signal Processing for Wireless Communication.

Amena Ejaz Aziz, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Electronics & Information Engineering from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Her specialization is in Visible Light Communication.

Benish Amin, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her PhD in Software Engineering from NUST Pakistan. Her area of specialization is Digital Image Processing, and she is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Fazal Hameed, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Embedded Systems from the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany. His specialization is in Embedded Systems.

Komal Nain Sukhia, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her PhD in Software Engineering from NUST Pakistan. Her area of specialization is Digital Image Processing, and she is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Madiha Tahir, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, holds a PhD in Computer Engineering from GIK Institute, Pakistan. Her areas of specialization include Evolutionary Computing, Data Analysis, and Deep Learning. She is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

S. Zainab Farooq, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Electrical Engineering, earned her PhD in Electronic & Information Engineering from Beihang University, China. Her specialization is in Satellite Navigation and Signal Processing.


The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) comprises a distinguished faculty with diverse expertise. Asif Israr, Professor and Head of Department, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Glasgow, UK, specializing in dynamics. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Muhammad Zubair, a Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, earned his Ph.D. from Brunel University in Uxbridge, Middlesex, West London, England (UK), specializing in dynamics. He is also an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Owais ur Rehman Shah, an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, holds a Ph.D. from the University of BREST, France, specializing in failure in composites. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Muhammad Umer, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, earned his Ph.D. from Politecnico Di Torino, Italy, specializing in non-linear vibration dynamics and machine design.

Naseem Ahmad, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, holds a Ph.D. from Harbin Engineering University, China, specializing in aerodynamics of turbomachinery, turbine blade cooling, flutter, and computational fluid dynamics. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Talha Irfan Khan, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, earned his Ph.D. from Koc University, Turkey, specializing in computational fluid dynamics and biomedical applications.

Usama Waleed Qazi, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, specializing in engineering management. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Usman Ghafoor, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, earned his Ph.D. from Pusan National University, Republic of Korea, specializing in signal processing and controls, robotics, and brain imaging.

Yumna Qureshi, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, holds a Ph.D. from ENSTA Bretagne, France, specializing in mechanics of solids, materials, structures, and surfaces. She is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Muhammad Azfar Jamal and Ruqia Ikram, both Lecturers in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, hold MS degrees from IST, Islamabad, specializing in mechanical design and analysis.

In addition to the academic staff, the department also boasts a dedicated team of researchers and lab engineers. Adnan Khan, Arsalan Ahsan Shaikh, Hafiz Mumtaz Alam, Muhammad Jazib, and Sultan Fateh Ali Khan serve as Senior Research Associates, each bringing expertise in various aspects of mechanical engineering. The team of Lab Engineers, including Abubakar Talal, Ahsan Ayaz, Ahsan Ghafoor, Hanzla Shahid, and Saad Akram, contribute to the practical aspects of mechanical engineering education and research at IST. Muhammad Junaid, Muhammad Shahid Latif, Muhammad Umar, Syed Afaq Ali Shah, and Syed Muhammad Ali Shah contribute as Research Associates, bringing valuable insights and contributions to the department's research endeavors.
The Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) is home to a distinguished faculty with expertise in various areas of materials science. Dr. Abdul Wadood, the Head of Department, obtained his Ph.D. in Shape Memory Materials from the Tokyo Institute of Technology (TITECH) Japan, with post-doctoral experience in High Temperature Shape Memory Materials from the High Temperature Materials Unit, NIMS, Tsukuba Japan. His areas of specialization include Shape Memory and Super-Elastic Materials, Biomaterials, High Temperature Materials, Corrosion, and Oxidation.

Dr. Anjum Tauqir, a Professor in the department, holds a Ph.D. in Metallurgy from the Institute of Materials Science, University of Connecticut, USA, specializing in Metallurgy. Another Professor, Dr. Syed Wilayat Husain, obtained his Ph.D. in Materials from the University of Connecticut, USA, with a focus on Phase Transformation & Alloy Development.

Associate Professor Dr. Abdul Faheem Khan earned his Ph.D. in Materials Science & Engineering from PIEAS, Islamabad, Pakistan, specializing in Nanostructured Multi-Layer Thin Film Solar Cells. Dr. Saad Nauman, also an Associate Professor, holds a Ph.D. in Carbon Composites from Universite des Sciences et Technologies de Lille 1 Lille, France, focusing on 3D Woven Carbon Composites & their Structural Health Monitoring. Dr. Saima Shabbir, another Associate Professor, has a Ph.D. in Chemistry from QAU, Islamabad, specializing in Polymer Chemistry.

Assistant Professors in the department include Dr. Muhammad Abdul Basit, who holds a Ph.D. in Materials Engineering from Hanyang University, South Korea, focusing on Advanced Materials for Energy Applications. Dr. Muhammad Atiq Ur Rehman obtained his Ph.D. in Materials Science & Engineering (EPD based Coatings) from the Institute of Biomaterials, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany, specializing in Biomaterials, Heat treatment, and Phase Transformations. Dr. Muhammad Yasir earned his Ph.D. in Materials Science & Engineering (Thermal Spray Coatings) from Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan China, with a specialization in Materials Science and Engineering.

The department's research associates and teaching/research associates contribute significantly to its academic environment and research endeavors. Their diverse backgrounds and areas of specialization, ranging from Material Characterization to Polymers & Polymeric Composites, enrich the department's research and educational programs, ensuring a well-rounded learning experience for students.






The faculty of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) includes a diverse and highly qualified team of experts.

Raees Fida Swati, the Head of the Department and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD in Structural Design of Flight Vehicles from the School of Astronautics at Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an, China. His specialization lies in Structural Design & Analysis, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Ihtizaz Qamar, a Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his PhD and MS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh, USA. His areas of specialization are Propulsion Systems and Computational Engineering.

Jamshed Riaz, an Adjunct Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD and MS in Flight Mechanics from the Georgia Institute of Technology, USA. His expertise includes Flight Mechanics and Automatic Control.

Muhammad Naeem, a Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MSc in Aerospace Propulsion and PhD in Aircraft Propulsion from Cranfield University, UK. His specialization is in Gas Turbines Performance (Modelling & Simulation).

Gohar Majeed, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Aerospace Engineering from Iowa State University, USA, and an MS in Engineering Management from CASE, Islamabad, Pakistan. His areas of specialization include Aerospace Structures, Mechanics of Composite Materials, Damage Tolerance Analysis, and Finite Element Modelling and Analysis.

Hayat Muhammad Khan, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his PhD in Automation and Robotics from Northwestern Polytechnical University, China, and an MS in Control Systems from the University of Toulouse (UPS), France. He specializes in Controls, Automation, and Robotics.

Mariyam Sattar, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD from Beihang University, China. Her area of specialization is Solid Mechanics, and she is an HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor.

Muhammad Wasim, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his PhD in Electrical Engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology Taxila, Pakistan. His specialization is in Control Systems.

Saad Rifat Qurashi, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Dayton, OHIO, USA. His area of expertise is Fluid Dynamics.

Izhar Hussain Kazmi, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his M.Phil in Fluid Dynamics from ENSHM, INPG, France. He specializes in Fluid Dynamics.

Umer Sohail, an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a PhD in Aerospace Engineering with a focus on Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Turbomachinery, Machine Learning, and Artificial Neural Networks from the Institute of Space Technology. He also holds an MS in Mechanical Engineering (Power) from Mirpur University of Science and Technology, and an MBA (Executive) from Allama Iqbal Open University. His specialization is in Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), Turbomachinery, Machine Learning, and Artificial Neural Networks.

Asad Mehmood, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Experimental Aerodynamics and Renewable Energy.

Sajid Hussain, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MS in Mechatronics Engineering from the National University of Sciences and Technology, Pakistan. His specialization is in Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS).

Shuja Ur Rehman, a Lecturer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Aerospace Engineering from Northwestern Polytechnical University, China. His area of specialization is Aero Vehicle Design.

Muhammad Jahanzeb Zia, a Senior Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BSc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, and his MS in Mechanical Engineering from the National University of Science and Technology, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnostics of Mechanical Systems, Vibration Analysis, and Balancing of Turbomachinery.

Fatima Hira, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MS in Engineering Management from Capital University of Science and Technology and a BS in Engineering Sciences (Simulation and Modeling) from Ghulam Ishaq Khan University of Science and Technology. Her specialization is in Engineering Management.

Muhammad Shaazil Atique, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His area of specialization is Computational Fluid Dynamics.

Muhammad Usama Saeed, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His specialization is in Aerodynamic Design & Analysis.

Muhammad Yaseen, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His area of specialization is Aerospace Vehicle Design.

Rida Jabbar, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. Her specialization is in Structural Design & Analysis.

Syed Amber Ali Shah, a Lab Engineer and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. His areas of specialization are Computer Vision and Aerodynamics.

Khurram Shehzad, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds an MSc in Mechanical Engineering (Applied Mechanics and Design) and a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Engineering & Technology Taxila. His specialization includes Applied Dynamics, Vibration, and Balancing of Turbomachinery.

Muhammad Adnan Khan, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MS in Physics from COMSATS University Islamabad, MSc in Physics from the University of Sargodha, and BSc in Physics from Govt. College Jhang. His areas of specialization are Numerical Simulation of Vacuum Systems and Rarefied Simulation.

Muhammad Ammar Roohani, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, holds a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Engineering & Technology Taxila, Pakistan. His specialization is in Maintenance/Reliability Engineering.

Sannan Salabat Butt, a Research Associate and a faculty member of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering, earned his MS in Chemical Engineering from the National University of Sciences & Technology, Islamabad, and his BSc in Chemical Engineering from the University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore. His areas of specialization include Heat Transfer and Refrigeration.






The Faculty of Avionics Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) boasts a team of accomplished individuals dedicated to advancing the field. Leading the department is Professor Israr Hussain, who holds a Ph.D. from The University of Manchester, UK, specializing in Signals & Image Processing. Professor Muhammad Abdul Rehman Khan, with a Ph.D. from Beihang University, Beijing, China, specializes in Secure Communications & Information Systems, while Professor Muhammad Amin, a Ph.D. graduate from Queen's University Belfast, UK, focuses on Antennas for Space and Land Communications. Professor Suhail Akhtar, with a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan Ann Arbor, USA, specializes in Flight Dynamics & Control.

Associate Professor Abdul Waheed, also serving as the Director of ORIC, obtained his Ph.D. from The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, focusing on Modelling Simulation and Control. The department's Assistant Professors include Irfan Majid, specializing in Avionics with an MS from NUST CAE, and Muhammad Zahid Sheikh, with an MS from George Washington University, USA, specializing in Data and Computer Communications. Sardar Ahmed, an Assistant Professor with an MS from NUST Islamabad, specializes in Avionics.

The department's lecturers, including Adeel Yousaf, Anila ali, Hafiz Ali Ahmad, Hamail Sultan, Lal Said, and Shifa Nadeem, bring diverse expertise to the faculty. Adeel Yousaf, pursuing a Ph.D. abroad, specializes in Deep-learning, Machine Learning, Computer Vision, and Image Processing. Anila ali, with an MS from Comsat University Islamabad, specializes in Control Systems. Hafiz Ali Ahmad, with an MS from NUST, specializes in Control Systems, Power Electronics, Electric Machines & Drives, and Electric Vehicles. Hamail Sultan, Lal Said, and Shifa Nadeem, all with MS degrees from the Institute of Space Technology, specialize in Wireless Communication Systems, Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition, and Wireless Communication Systems, respectively.

The lab engineers, Maha Intakhab Alam and Rida Nasir, both hold BS degrees in Avionics Engineering from the Institute of Space Technology. Maha specializes in RF & Microwave, Digital Signal Process, and Radar Absorbing Materials, while Rida focuses on Avionics System Design and Radar Systems. Collectively, the faculty of the Department of Avionics Engineering at IST is dedicated to research, teaching, and innovation in the field of avionics, contributing significantly to the advancement of aerospace technology.
The faculty of the National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geo-Informatics (NCRG) at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) includes several distinguished members.

Muhammad Ateeq Qureshi, who serves as the Head of the Department and is a faculty member of NCRG, holds a PhD from the University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) in Beijing, China. His areas of specialization include Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Remote Sensing, and Glacier Geomorphology.

Muhammad Jahanzeb Malik is an Assistant Professor and a faculty member of NCRG. He holds a PhD from the University of Twente (ITC) in Enschede, the Netherlands, and specializes in Microwave and Optical Remote Sensing.

Abdul Basit, a Lecturer and a faculty member of NCRG, holds an MS from the Institute of Space Technology, NCRG Karachi. His area of expertise is Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Science (GISc).

Rao Muhammad Zahid Khalil is also a Lecturer and a faculty member of NCRG. He holds an MS from the Institute of Space Technology, NCRG Karachi, and specializes in Geography, Hydrology, Microwave Remote Sensing, and GIS.

Sajid Majeed, another Lecturer and a faculty member of NCRG, holds an MS from the National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (NUCES-FAST), Karachi. His areas of specialization include Data Science, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Deep Learning.

Each faculty member brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise in their respective fields, contributing significantly to the educational and research missions of NCRG.
he Department of Space Science at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) boasts an esteemed faculty with diverse expertise. Mujtaba Hassan, Associate Professor and Head of Department, holds a PhD from TSINGHUA University, China, and is specialized in climate variability and change, extreme events, South Asian summer monsoon dynamics, regional climate modeling, hydrological modeling, and climate change impact assessment on water resources. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Ali Hussain, a Professor with a Ph.D. from the University of Ulsan, South Korea, focuses on piezoelectric materials, their synthesis, characterization, and applications, and is also an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Muhammad Shakir, an Associate Professor, earned his Ph.D. from the Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. He specializes in agriculture remote sensing and forestry and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Najam Abbas Naqvi, an Associate Professor and Chairman of the National Centre of GIS and Space Applications, holds a Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from Northwestern Polytechnical University (NPU), China. His areas of expertise include spacecraft dynamics and controls and the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Sajid Butt, an Associate Professor with a Ph.D. from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, specializes in energy materials, functional materials, physics of materials, and advanced characterization techniques, and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Sajid Ghuffar, an Associate Professor, completed his Postdoc at the University of St Andrews, UK, and his Ph.D. at the Vienna University of Technology, Austria. His specialization includes photogrammetry, computer vision, remote sensing, machine learning, and cubesats, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Saleem Ullah, an Associate Professor, completed his Postdoc at the University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB), USA, and his Ph.D. at the University of Twente, Netherlands. His expertise lies in remote sensing of vegetation, GIS, and multispectral and hyperspectral remote sensing, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Abdul Kabir, an Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. from GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology, Pakistan, specializes in theoretical and nuclear astrophysics, nucleosynthesis, evolution phases of stars and supernova explosions, nuclear cross-section, quantum many-body interaction, nuclear abundances, numerical techniques used in nuclear physics, and theoretical plasma and optical properties of material.

Imran Ali Khan, an Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. from GC University Lahore, Pakistan, focuses on the applications of electromagnetic waves in space plasmas and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Muhammad Usman, an Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. in Physics, specializes in particle astrophysics and cosmology and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Munawar Shah, an Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. in Geodesy and GNSS from Shanghai Astronomical Observatory, specializes in GNSS ionosphere modeling, GNSS-R, earthquake precursors in the atmosphere and ionosphere, and GNSS space weather, and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Saeeda Sajjad, an Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. from the University of Montpellier, France, specializes in physics with a focus on gamma-ray astronomy, high-energy astronomy and astrophysics, imaging atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes, Monte Carlo simulations, and gamma-ray bursts. Lecturers in the department include Ibtehaj Hassan, who holds a Master's in Astronomy and Astrophysics from IST Islamabad and specializes in plasma physics; Maham Siddiqi, with an MSc in Physics from Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, Oman, and a BS in Astronomy and Astrophysics from Harvard University, specializing in gravitational waves and X-ray binaries; and Waheed Ahmed, with an MS in Physics, Astrophysics from the University of Innsbruck, Austria, and the University of Goettingen, Germany, specializing in astronomy and cosmology.

Fahad Khurshid, a Senior Research Associate, holds a BSc in Physics from Govt. Islamia College Civil Lines, Lahore, and an MSc in Physics from the University of Punjab, Lahore. Adnan Ashraf, a Lab Engineer, holds an MS in Global Navigation Satellite Systems from IST Islamabad, specializing in GNSS and physics. Asad Munir, a Lab Associate with an MPhil in Physics from Quaid-I-Azam University, Islamabad, specializes in particle physics and radiation physics. Khurram Abbas, a Lab Associate, holds an MS in Astronomy & Astrophysics and an MSc in Computational Physics, specializing in quantum plasmas, astrophysics, and gravitational waves. Shahanshah Abbas, a Lab Engineer and MS Academic Coordinator, holds an MS from IST Islamabad, specializing in remote sensing and geographic information science and computer engineering. Usama Ahmad, Coordinator of NCGSA & GNSS Program, holds an MS in Aerospace from IST, specializing in GNSS. Lastly, Umair Rafi, a Research Associate, holds a BSc in Physics from the University of Gujrat, an MSc in Physics from the University of Punjab, and an MPhil in Physics from the University of Punjab, specializing in industrial safety.

also write in about the faculty memeber in every paragarph that they are from department of space science
ChatGPT
The Department of Space Science at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) boasts an esteemed faculty with diverse expertise. Mujtaba Hassan, Associate Professor and Head of Department, is from the Department of Space Science and holds a Ph.D. from TSINGHUA University, China. He specializes in climate variability and change, extreme events, South Asian summer monsoon dynamics, regional climate modeling, hydrological modeling, and climate change impact assessment on water resources. He is also an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Ali Hussain, a Professor from the Department of Space Science, has a Ph.D. from the University of Ulsan, South Korea. His areas of specialization include piezoelectric materials, their synthesis, characterization, and applications. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Muhammad Shakir, an Associate Professor from the Department of Space Science, earned his Ph.D. from the Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. He specializes in agriculture remote sensing and forestry and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Najam Abbas Naqvi, an Associate Professor and Chairman of the National Centre of GIS and Space Applications, is also from the Department of Space Science. He holds a Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from Northwestern Polytechnical University (NPU), China. His expertise includes spacecraft dynamics and controls and the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Sajid Butt, an Associate Professor from the Department of Space Science, holds a Ph.D. from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. He specializes in energy materials, functional materials, physics of materials, and advanced characterization techniques, and is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Sajid Ghuffar, an Associate Professor from the Department of Space Science, completed his Postdoc at the University of St Andrews, UK, and his Ph.D. at the Vienna University of Technology, Austria. His specialization includes photogrammetry, computer vision, remote sensing, machine learning, and cubesats, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Saleem Ullah, an Associate Professor from the Department of Space Science, completed his Postdoc at the University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB), USA, and his Ph.D. at the University of Twente, Netherlands. His expertise lies in remote sensing of vegetation, GIS, and multispectral and hyperspectral remote sensing, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Abdul Kabir, an Assistant Professor from the Department of Space Science, holds a Ph.D. from GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology, Pakistan. He specializes in theoretical and nuclear astrophysics, nucleosynthesis, evolution phases of stars and supernova explosions, nuclear cross-section, quantum many-body interaction, nuclear abundances, numerical techniques used in nuclear physics, and theoretical plasma and optical properties of materials. Imran Ali Khan, an Assistant Professor from the Department of Space Science, has a Ph.D. from GC University Lahore, Pakistan. His area of specialization includes the applications of electromagnetic waves in space plasmas, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Muhammad Usman, an Assistant Professor from the Department of Space Science, holds a Ph.D. in Physics and specializes in particle astrophysics and cosmology. He is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor. Munawar Shah, an Assistant Professor from the Department of Space Science, earned his Ph.D. in Geodesy and GNSS from Shanghai Astronomical Observatory, CAS, China. His areas of expertise include GNSS ionosphere modeling, GNSS-R, earthquake precursors in the atmosphere and ionosphere, and GNSS space weather, and he is an HEC Approved Ph.D. Supervisor.

Saeeda Sajjad, an Assistant Professor from the Department of Space Science, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Montpellier, France. Her specialization is in physics, focusing on gamma-ray astronomy, high-energy astronomy and astrophysics, imaging atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes, Monte Carlo simulations, and gamma-ray bursts. Ibtehaj Hassan, a Lecturer from the Department of Space Science, holds a Master's in Astronomy and Astrophysics from IST Islamabad and specializes in plasma physics. Maham Siddiqi, a Lecturer from the Department of Space Science, holds an MSc in Physics from Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, Oman, and a BS in Astronomy and Astrophysics from Harvard University, specializing in gravitational waves and X-ray binaries.

Waheed Ahmed, a Lecturer from the Department of Space Science, holds an MS in Physics, Astrophysics from the University of Innsbruck, Austria, and the University of Goettingen, Germany, specializing in astronomy and cosmology. Fahad Khurshid, a Senior Research Associate from the Department of Space Science, holds a BSc in Physics from Govt. Islamia College Civil Lines, Lahore, and an MSc in Physics from the University of Punjab, Lahore. Adnan Ashraf, a Lab Engineer from the Department of Space Science, holds an MS in Global Navigation Satellite Systems from IST Islamabad, specializing in GNSS and physics.

Asad Munir, a Lab Associate from the Department of Space Science, holds an MPhil in Physics from Quaid-I-Azam University, Islamabad, specializing in particle physics and radiation physics. Khurram Abbas, a Lab Associate from the Department of Space Science, holds an MS in Astronomy & Astrophysics and an MSc in Computational Physics, specializing in quantum plasmas, astrophysics, and gravitational waves. Shahanshah Abbas, a Lab Engineer and MS Academic Coordinator from the Department of Space Science, holds an MS from IST Islamabad, specializing in remote sensing and geographic information science and computer engineering.

Usama Ahmad, Coordinator of NCGSA & GNSS Program from the Department of Space Science, holds an MS in Aerospace from IST, specializing in GNSS. Lastly, Umair Rafi, a Research Associate from the Department of Space Science, holds a BSc in Physics from the University of Gujrat, an MSc in Physics from the University of Punjab, and an MPhil in Physics from the University of Punjab, specializing in industrial safety.
Contact Admission Office for password recovery.
Enter your personal details and start journey with us.
GIS day is a worldwide event that celebrates the technology of Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Geospatial Society at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad brings second Geospatial Hackathon in affiliation with National Centre of GIS and Space Applications (NCGSA). This 3-day event aims to connect and empower students, Geospatial/GIS Analyst, Developers And Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) from all over Pakistan to design solutions for the world's toughest challenges being faced today. Participants will propose and develop geospatial solutions/prototypes to the problems and challenges faced by humanity these days in the domains of Sustainable Development Goals (5,6 & 13). SDG 5: Gender Equality "Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls." SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation "Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all." SDG 13: Climate Action "Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts." The Geohackathon will result in innovative and actionable GIS solutions to the world's most pressing sustainability concerns. Geohackathon 2021 is a 3 day event. Be ready to bring the change with geospatial solutions to world problems. Registration Fee: PKR 1000/- The last date to apply is 31st, January 2022 . National Center of GIS and Space Applications (NCGSA); a project of Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan led by IST, encompasses endeavors that strive to achieve and sustain human, technological, research and entrepreneurial capacity in the areas of space science, technology and its applications. Copyright © 2024

Empowering Pakistan through Higher Education In continuation of its efforts to enable the country's higher education sector to become more effective in academic excellence, management and problem-oriented research, the HEC Pakistan Wednesday held launch conference of the NAHE.
​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​We offer a number of services to support individuals & organizations across Pakistan This section details information about services and programs being offered by HEC to support academic growth of students, career growth of faculty and insitutionalised strengthening of universities. Click here to find out more aboutthese services and programs.​
​​​​​​​​Higher Education Commission grants No Objection Certificate (NOC) to foreign national students for educational purpose in order to complete formal requirements of admission and visa processing under the intimation to the Ministry of Interior. As per the existing policy, foreign students approach the desired Universities/DAIs directly to secure admission, after confirmation of the admission the Universities/DAIs refer the case to HEC for issuance of NOC for student visa process. Following documents are required by Higher Education Commission to process NOC cases. The NOC application must be submitted by the International Student Office along with duly verified documents: The request for issuance of NOC must be initiated by International Student Office of the respective university only. HEC will not entertain any NOC application submitted by the foreign students personally. The complete NOC application in softcopy should be emailed to HEC on the following email address: Furthermore, HEC requires five (05) working days for processing of NOC application from the date of receipt of complete application. The university may request for application status update officially and discourage the foreign students from visiting HEC office for personal enquiries in order to avoid any inconvenience. Contacts: ​Mr. Hidayat Ullah Khan​Director (Academics)​Higher Education Commission​H-8, Islamabad ​ Saher Mirza​Assistant Director (Academics)​ ​​
A collection of research journals that are categorized into three different categories – W, X and Y -- within their respective knowledge areas on the basis of a number of internationally benchmarked and recognized parameters that measure the quality of a journal. The relative position and category of each journal is computed by a proprietary algorithm that is designed with the objective of promoting quality research across various disciplines. HJRS uses a novel Journal Prestige Index (JPI) measure which is calculated as a function of a journal's internationally benchmarked and recognized prestige parameters. The relative thresholds, decided by the respective scientific review panel of HEC, on JPI are used to classify Journals into W, X or Y categories. All six factors are given equal weight to ensure that no bias is introduced towards any single factor. HJRS includes all the subject areas and sub-categories according to JACS. This provides precise and fine-grained positioning of a journal at two different levels: within a top-level subject area and different sub-categories within a top-level subject area. As a result, the quality parameters that associate a bias with any subject area are normalized relative to the parameters of the journals of a subject area. HJRS reports raw and the percentile score of parameters and Journal Prestige Index (JPI) that are used for calculating the relative position of a journal to ensure transparency in assigning a category and medallion to a journal. The relative scores allow researchers to compare the quality of a journal in a Subject area and its associated sub-categories with the respective journals of the same area. HJRS categorizes a research journal into three categories – W, X and Y-- where W is the highest recognized category followed by X and Y within each subject area and its associated sub-categories.
Please feel free to contact us for any query using following email address or a direct phone call. Research and Development Division Higher Education Commission of Pakistan H-9 , Islamabad , Pakistan info-r&d@hec.gov.pk , hjrs@hec.gov.pk
NBP offers you secure & convenient banking to access your accounts anywhere anytime. You can login to NBP Digital-Internet Banking using Mobile Application login credentials Enter your username and password to access internet banking Need Help? Call us now: 021-111-627-627 Visit Out Website WWW.NBP.COM.PK NBP Digital - Mobile App Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) General FAQs Q: What is NBP Mobile Banking? A: NBP Mobile Banking means the online banking services provided through Mobile Application with the brand name NBP Digital, customers can perform financial & non-financial transactions from their accounts & avail the banking services 24/7 anywhere any time on real time basis. Q: Which transactions can be performed through NBP Mobile Banking? Following transactions can be performed through NBP Mobile Banking: Q: If I make payment of utility Bill, CNIC Transfer or perform IBT/IBFT using NBP Mobile Banking, when will my account get debited and when will payment to the beneficiary be made? A: Unless any error message is notified while making any transaction, your Account will instantly get debited and beneficiary`s account will be credited in real time (at the same time). Q: How will I get transaction confirmation? A: Successful transaction message will be generated at User`s Screen. Besides this, confirmation notification will be sent to your registered Mobile and email address. Also you can check e-Transaction Receipt for status of transaction. Q: Are the transactions made using NBP Mobile Banking safe and secure? A: To secure your accounts and transactions while using NBP Mobile Banking, NBP has ensured high level protection in terms of hardware, software, SSL certificate, Firewalls and other Security software and no financial transaction can be executed without MPIN, which will be created by customer himself. Q: What are the timings during which I can use NBP Mobile Banking service? A: You can use NBP Mobile Banking any time you want. This service is available 24/7. Q: Where will I contact to raise any complaint related to transactions? A: You can call NBP Help Line: 021-111-627-627 and get your complaint registered for resolution. Q: From where can I get information about NBP Mobile Banking? A: You may visit NBP website for NBP Digital information. For any further query please call NBP Help Line: 021-111-627-627. Q: what should I do, if my Mobile Phone is lost / snatched? A: Call NBP Help Line: 021-111-627-627 to get your Mobile Banking User ID deactivated/Blocked. You can get your User ID Blocked/Deactivated either temporarily or permanently. Q: How can I take Screenshot of Mobile App transaction details? A: Go to Hamburger menu option and tap on E-Transaction Receipts. Select required transaction details and tap on Take Screenshot option to save screenshot of the transaction in your mobile. Q: Are there any charges for using NBP Mobile Banking? A: No, NBP Mobile Banking is absolutely free. There are no monthly or annual charges. Registration: Q: Who can use NBP Mobile Banking? A: Any NBP active Account holder can register for Mobile App. Note: Q: How can I use Mobile Banking of NBP? A: Customer will have to register himself/herself for NBP Mobile Banking. In case of existing Internet Banking User, he/ she has to login with Internet Banking Login Valid Credentials or vice versa. Q: How can I get myself registered for NBP Mobile Banking? A: NBP Mobile Banking Application will be downloadable from: Customer get himself/herself registered on NBP Mobile Banking by providing following credentials, Account#, Registered Mobile Number, CNIC#. Q: What if my email address is not registered with the bank? Can I still register for NBP Mobile Banking with unregistered email address? A: Yes, you can register for NBP Mobile Banking & you can also register your email address at the time of Registration upgrade of Mobile Banking, you just need to enter the required details on registration upgrade screen of Mobile banking along with email address & it will get registered in Bank`s record. Q: How can I get my mobile number registered in the Bank`s record? A: Customer will have to visit the concerned branch, fill form and get his CIF updated to register his/her email address or mobile number in bank records. Q: How can I update my email address or mobile number in the Bank`s record? A: Customer will have to visit the concerned branch, fill form and get his information updated in bank records. Alternatively, email address can also be updated in NBP records by sending an SMS on 8627 writing "Y" or "email address" to be updated. After receiving SMS, NBP representative will contact you on your registered number for email address update. Q: On which Mobile Phones, NBP Mobile Banking Application can be used? A: NBP Mobile Banking Application will be a native Mobile Application on following platforms: Android Phones - Android Version Kit-Kat (4.4) and above IPhone - iOS version 8.0.and above Q: Can I use NBP Mobile Banking from outside Pakistan? A: You may use NBP Mobile Banking from anywhere across the globe. All you need is a stable Internet connection. Q: Will my Password shared /stored on System at time of Registration? A: No, your password will not be shared/ stored at any time. Your password is encrypted with codes for security purpose. Q: Are there any charges for using NBP Mobile Banking? A: No, NBP Mobile Banking is absolutely free. There are no Monthly or Annual Charges. Q: What is Login PIN? A: Login PIN is a 6-digit numeric value used to get logon to NBP Mobile Banking, which is created by user himself after 1st time login. Every time user logon to NBP Mobile Banking he/she will have to provide login PIN. Q: I have successfully registered on NBP Digital but I am unable to perform financial transactions, why? A: You need to upgrade your registration to enable financial transactions and other advanced features. Q: What do I need to have to upgrade my registration? A: You need to have Debit Card issued for registration upgrade. Q: How can I upgrade my registration? A: Go to hamburger menu and access "Registration Upgrade" feature, fill out the details & submit. One Time Password (OTP) Q: What is OTP? A: OTP (One Time Password) is a System generated alphanumeric code which is sent on the registered email address and/or mobile number of the account holder for validation of the customer. OTP is an additional security measure put in place to protect customer`s accounts. OTP is confidential and should not be shared with anyone even with NBP Branch/Call Center staff. Q: What is the validity of each OTP? A: OTP will be valid for 5 minutes from the time of generation. Q: What are the charges of OTP SMS? A: The Bank does not charge customers for receiving OTPs. This service is absolutely free. Q: Can one OTP be used multiple times? A: No. OTP is system generated one-time password & can only be used once to ensure security of customers. Password/PIN Management Q: I forgot my Login PIN, what should I do? A: You can create a new login PIN by using forgot Password/PIN option from login screen. Q: What should I do if I forgot my login Password/Pin? A: Customer may reset his/her password/pin by using the "Forgot Password/pin" option available on NBP Mobile Banking Application login screen. System generated One Time password will be sent on the registered email and/or registered Mobile Number of the customer, which will enable customer to re-set his/her password/pin. Q: How can I unlock my User ID in case of multiple wrong attempts? A: You can unlock User ID by using "forget Password/Pin" option on login screen. Q: What should I do if someone knows my login Password/PIN? A: You should immediately change your login Password/PIN by using "Change Password/PIN" option from hamburger menu. Transaction Limits & Charges Q: Are the limits for NBP Mobile Banking / Internet Banking separate? A: No, limit is not separate. In case limit is expired in any one of the channel, user cannot exceed limit from any other channel except ATM and Branches. Q: What are the payment limits on NBP Mobile Banking / Internet Banking? A: Daily transaction limits are provided in below table Transaction Limit Amount IBT (NBP to NBP Fund Transfer) Rs. 200,000/- IBFT (NBP to Other Bank Fund Transfer) Rs. 200,000/- CNIC Transfers Rs. 50,000/- Bill Payments Rs. 300,000/- Mobile Top-up (Prepaid) Rs. 5000/- Q: What are the charges if I make any transaction using NBP Mobile Banking? A: Transactions are free of service charges except CNIC Transfers. Charges on CNIC Transfer slab wise as per below table: Slab Start Slab End Service Tariff 1 1,000 44.00 1,001 2,500 88.00 2,501 4,000 132.00 4,001 6,000 176.00 6,001 8,000 220.00 8,001 10,000 264.00 10,001 13,000 308.00 13,001 16,000 352.00 16,001 20,000 418.00 20,001 25,000 484.00 25,001 30,000 552.00 30,001 40,000 618.00 40,001 50,000 684.00 Moreover, for further details, please refer to NBP Schedule of Charges. Beneficiary Management Q: What is the purpose of Beneficiary Addition and how can we use it? A: For financial transactions like Bill Payment, Air Time Top Up, Funds Transfer and IBFT, it is an additional feature for customer to add beneficiary & authenticate the addition through MPIN. By adding beneficiary, customer will not have to provide all the credentials of beneficiary again while making transaction to the same beneficiary in future. Customer can add & delete beneficiary depending on his/her requirement. Q. How to add Beneficiary on Mobile Banking? A: After Login, user will go to Beneficiary Management option, and selects transaction type & enters required details of Beneficiary then press submit button, user will then enter MPIN for successful addition of beneficiary. Q: Is there any limit on number of beneficiaries for Beneficiary Addition? A: No, there is no limit on number of beneficiaries. Q. What is the difference between Beneficiary & Non-Beneficiary transactions? A: For added beneficiaries, user don`t need to enter beneficiary details & MPIN again and can proceed for transactions by just selecting the beneficiary. Whereas, for non-beneficiary transactions user need to enter all details of beneficiary and MPIN to make a transaction. Blocking & Unblocking of Mobile Banking Application ID Q: What should I do if someone gets to know my login details? A: You should call NBP Help Line: 021-111-627-627 and get the Mobile banking blocked on immediate basis. Please note that your NBP Mobile Application will also be blocked for security reasons & vice versa. Q: How can I get my Mobile Banking Blocked? A: You can call NBP Help Line: 021-111-627-627 and get the Mobile banking blocked on immediate basis. Please note that your NBP Internet Banking will also be blocked for security reasons & vice versa. Q: Will I be able to use NBP Mobile Banking again after Deactivation/Blocking of ID? A: Yes, you can use NBP Mobile App after deactivation/Blocking of ID. In case you have temporarily blocked your ID, call NBP Helpline to activate your ID. And if the ID was permanently blocked, you need to register again for NBP Mobile App. Please note that on receiving of reactivation request of Mobile Banking channel, Internet Banking will be reactivated too & vice versa. Pay to CNIC Transfers Q: What is Pay to CNIC transfers? A: "Pay to CNIC" transfer enables NBP account holders to send funds through NBP Mobile Banking on any individual`s valid CNIC instantly, and beneficiary will receive the funds from authorized NBP branchless banking agents-Jazzcash nationwide by just verifying Transaction ID (TID) & CNIC sent through SMS & performing Biometric Nadra verification at the agent shop. Q: Who can transfer funds via Pay to CNIC? A: Any NBP Mobile Banking User can send funds through Pay to CNIC. Q: On which Channel customer can transfer money through Pay to CNIC? A: Customer can transfer money through "JAZZCASH"-NBP Benchless Banking agent for Pay to CNIC transactions. Q: Does a customer need to have beneficiary mobile phone and CNIC to transfer funds through Pay to CNIC? A: Yes, customer should provide Beneficiary`s valid NADRA CNIC number & active mobile number to transfer funds through Pay to CNIC; Beneficiary will receive SMS notification which will contain the transaction ID (TID) that will be used for receiving the funds from "JAZZCASH". Q: Will the Beneficiary get any notification for Pay to CNIC transaction? A: SMS notification will be sent to the Beneficiary at the time of fund transfer request is made by the sender. Q: How can Beneficiary receive funds transferred through pay to CNIC? A: Beneficiary can receive funds from any JAZZCASH Biometric enabled retailer by performing Biometric verification. Q: How long does money transfer transaction take? How long the receiver does have to wait after the sender sends the money? A: Funds are transferred instantly. Q: Is there any limit on number of transactions for Pay to CNIC? A: There is no limit on the number of transactions. Q: Is there any limit on amount that customer can transfer through Pay to CNIC? A: Customer can transfer Rs. 50,000/- per day. Q: Is there any limit on amount that Beneficiary can receive? A: Beneficiary can receive Rs. 50,000/- per month from single channel (at the moment this service only available on Jazzcash) Q: What if a beneficiary has an expired CNIC? A: Beneficiary cannot withdraw money if CNIC is expired. Q: What if Beneficiary does not receive SMS of pay to CNIC transfers? A: Customer will have to call NBP call center to get the transaction ID. Credit Card Payments Q: Can I pay my Credit Card bill through NBP Mobile Banking? A: Yes, you can pay credit card bills through NBP Mobile Banking from 1Bill Credit Card Bills-Payments section. Q: How can I pay my Credit Card bill through NBP Mobile Banking? A: Q: Which information is required to pay Credit Card bill? A: You just need to have credit card number to pay credit card bill. Q: Can I make partial payments for credit card bill? A: Yes, you can make partial payment, full payment or above the bill payment amount as per your choice. Q: Which banks are enabled for Credit Card Payments through NBP Mobile Banking? A: User can pay credit card bill payment for the following Banks: - Faysal Bank Limited - Bank Alfalah Limited - United Bank Limited - Silk Bank - JS Bank - Habib Bank Limited - Askari Commercial Bank Limited - Allied Bank Limited - Muslim commercial Bank. MPIN Management Q: What is MPIN? A: MPIN is the Mobile Banking Personal Identification Number which is Customer generated four (04) digits code used for making financial & non-financial transactions. Q: What is the use of MPIN? A: MPIN is used to validate the Financial Transactions & Non-Financial transactions such as Beneficiary Addition and fund transfers transactions. Q: How can customer generate MPIN? A: Mobile Banking will ask Customer to generate MPIN when customer login first time after the registration. Q: How can I recover MPIN if I forgot my MPIN? A: User can access MPIN Management section from hamburger menu of Mobile Banking & select Forgot MPIN to reset the new MPIN. Q: Can I change my MPIN? A: Yes, you can change your MPIN whenever you want. Access MPIN Management section from hamburger menu of Mobile Banking & select change MPIN to reset the new MPIN. Q: Do I need to create MPIN for Mobile App if I am an existing NBP Internet Banking User? A: Yes, MPIN for Mobile App & Internet banking will be different from each other and user needs to create it separately. Multiple Account Addition Q: What is "Multiple Account" addition? A: Multiple Account addition is the feature to enable NBP Mobile Banking users to link/add their multiple/other accounts with Mobile Banking. Users will be able to perform all the transactions which are available on Mobile Banking Channel through added multiple accounts. Q: How to add multiple accounts? A: User can access My Accounts Section from Mobile Banking home screen & select Add Multiple Account option to add the accounts by providing required account details. Q: Can customer add Islamic account and/or conventional account in multiple account addition option? A: Yes, customer can add both Islamic and conventional account at the same time and can access both accounts respectively. Q: What is "Default Account"? A: Default Account means the account which will be automatically selected for making transactions instead of asking customer every time before proceeding for transaction in case customer is using multiple accounts on Mobile Banking. Q: Can customer set any account as a default account for making transactions? A: Yes, customer can select any account as a default account for making transactions. Q: How to set account as a default account? A: User can access My Accounts Section from Mobile Banking home screen & select Default Account option to set the account as default account. Fund Transfers (IBT/IBFT) Q: What is IBT? A: IBT is Inter/intra branch transfer, it means to transfer funds from your NBP account to beneficiary`s NBP account. For making IBT transactions you & your beneficiary both should have NBP Account regardless of branch. Q: Can I transfer funds from my conventional account to Islamic account & vice versa through NBP Mobile Banking? A: Yes, you can make conventional account to Islamic account fund transfer & vice versa through NBP Mobile Banking. Q: What information do I need to have to make fund transfer transaction over IBT on Mobile Banking? A: You will be required to provide following information for IBT: Q: What is IBFT? A: IBFT is Inter Bank Fund Transfer, it means to transfer funds from your NBP account to any other bank account of beneficiary. Q: What information do I need to have to make fund transfer transaction over IBFT on Mobile Banking? A: You will be required to provide following information for IBFT: Q: Is there any specific format of Account Number for Online Fund Transfers and from where can I confirm correct format of account number? A: Yes, it`s a combination of branch & account number. You can easily find it on Mobile Banking fund transfer screen with information circle provided on input of account number field. Bill Payments Q: Which categories of Bills I can pay using NBP Mobile Banking? A: Bills of following can be paid using NBP Mobile Banking: And others added by Bank time to time. Q: What is Consumer Number? A: It`s an individual number allotted by the Bill Payment Company to their customers for making bill payments. Q: Where can I find my Consumer Number? A: You can check your consumer number on the bill/voucher provided by bill payment company. Q: How to make Bill Payments? A: You can access Payments section from home screen of Mobile Banking then select your company & provide consumer number to make payment. Q: How long will it take for the payment to be received by the bill payment company? A: Payment will be made instantly. Device Verification/Binding Q: What is device verification in Mobile Banking? A: Every time a user login to Mobile Banking, system will send one-time password (OTP) to user`s registered mobile number & email address & will ask customer to enter the OTP on Mobile banking device verification screen to validate the user, it adds an extra layer of security for users. Mobile Banking Application customer can bind trusted device by verifying it & can skip the process of verifying device every time a user login for Mobile Banking Application. Biometric/Touch ID Login Q: What is biometric/Touch ID login? A: It`s a fingerprint feature available in NBP Digital; customer can use it as an alternative of User ID & password to login to NBP Digital. Q: Do I need to register for biometric/Touch ID login? A: Yes, customer must get himself registered/configure biometric/Touch ID login through NBP Digital. Q: How to register for biometric/Touch ID login? A: Step 1: Tap on "Configure" icon available on the mobile app screen Step 2: Select "Enable" touch ID Step 3: Insert user name & password Step 4: Accept T&Cs Step 5: Press "Login" Step 6: Place a finger on scanner. Q: Is biometric/Touch ID login a safer option to use? A: Yes, it is safer and convenient option to use as fingerprints recognition are not possible to replicate, once fingerprint recognition authentication is enabled to login NBP Digital, any fingerprint recognition stored on this device can be used to access NBP Digital. NBP don`t recommend using fingerprint authentication if you share your device with any person or other persons have their fingerprints recognition stored on your device. Q: What are the charges of using Biometric/Touch ID login? A: Biometric/Touch ID login feature is free for NBP customers. Q: Can I disable biometric/Touch ID login service? A: Yes, you can disable the service through NBP Digital. Q: How to disable biometric/touch ID login service? A: Step 1: Tap on "Configure" icon available on the mobile app main screen Step 2: Select "Disable" touch ID Once fingerprint recognition authentication is disabled, you will require your username and password to login to NBP Digital. Q: Is there any specific device required to use biometric/Touch ID login? A: Android & iOS users can use biometric/Touch ID login option on fingerprint Recognition supported device. Q: What if I have someone else fingerprints registered on my device? A: NBP don`t recommend using fingerprint authentication if you share your device with any person or other persons have their fingerprints stored on your device. Q: What if I do not have biometric/touch ID supported device? A: In such case, you can still download the application, but Touch ID Login service will not be available, and you can login by entering User ID & password Q: How many devices I can register for the Touch ID Login service? A: You can register devices as many as you wish to. Q: Can I use my login credentials & biometric/Touch ID login at the same time? A: To login only one testimonial is required either User Name & Password or fingerprint recognition however both can be used as per customer convenience. Q: Are my fingerprints Recognition stored in NBP Digital app? A: No, NBP Digital only access fingerprints from the device& does not store your fingerprints or in the app or server. Virtual Card Issuance & QR/NFC Payments Q: What is Virtual Card? A: Virtual card which is also known as Digital Card created for e-commerce& POS transactions. It provides an easy & secure way of transacting without providing the primary card to the merchant. Using NBP virtual card service through mobile app (NBP Digital) our customers can make payments to merchants for their online & physical purchases through QRC payments anywhere any time on real time basis. This virtual card is powered by UPI (Union Pay International) and work on UPI accepted merchants. Q: Who can avail virtual card service? A: All customers using NBP Digital Mobile Application can avail the service of virtual card. Q: How can I activate/issue/provision virtual card? A: Following are the ways: If customer disagree the Terms & Conditions, then it will re-direct customer to home screen. Q: How does virtual card work? A: A virtual card is similar to a normal physical debit card except it doesn't exist physically. Both cards have their different card numbers and act as authenticating tools while making transactions. Q: Is my virtual card an international card? A: Yes, you can use it locally and internationally. Q: Can I use my virtual card for payment in a currency other than Pakistani rupees? A: Yes, but it will reflect in account after conversion in Pak rupee. Q: Can I use same virtual card on other device? A: Yes, you have to add a virtual card for every other device with different PIN. Q: What are the benefits of using Virtual Card? A: It is Safer, Easier & Convenient to use. You don`t need to carry physical card if you are using a virtual card. Q: Are the transactions made using virtual card safe and secure? A: To secure your accounts and transactions while using NBP Mobile Banking, NBP has ensured high level protection in terms of hardware, software, SSL certificate, Firewalls and other Security software and no financial transaction can be executed without Card PIN (which is created at the time of generating/adding a card). Q: Can I change my Virtual Card PIN? A: Yes, you can easily change your Virtual card PIN through Mobile App. Q: What should I do if I forget my Card PIN? A: You can easily set your new PIN through App. Go to hamburger menu > Virtual Card > Card Operations > View Card > Forgot PIN. Q: What is QRC? A: A QR code (quick response code) is a type of 2D bar code that is used to provide easy access to information through a smartphone. You just need to scan the code and information of merchant appears on your app screen. Q: How many types of QR Code are there? A: There are two types of QR Code 1. Dynamic QR Code (All details of merchant are fetched including amount of transaction) 2. Static QR Code (All details of merchant are fetched excluding amount of transaction and customer have to put amount manually while making payment) Q: What is NFC Payment? A: Near Field Communication (NFC) Payment, a mode which will enable NBP Customers to pay by tapping mobile against NFC Enabled POS. It is mandatory for customer to have NFC enabled Mobile Phones. Q: How can I use my virtual card for QRC Payment? A: Q: How can I use my virtual card for NFC Payment (Without login in Mobile App)? A: Q: How can I use my virtual card for NFC Payment (With login Mobile App)? A: Q: Are there any service charges for using NFC & QR payment? A: For International POS Transactions, NBP will charge 3% of transaction amount as service charges. In local POS transaction, there are no service charges. Tax will be applicable as per the tax rule. Q: If I make payment (QR or NFC), when will my A/C get debited and when will payment to the beneficiary be made? A: Unless any error message is notified while making any transaction, your A/C will instantly get debited and beneficiary`s A/C will be credited in real time (at the same time). Q: How can I temporary block/deactivate the virtual card on a single device or multiple devices if I don`t want to use it? A: For Single Mobile Device below steps to be followed From Multiple Mobile Devices, you can contact call center and get your virtual card deactivated from all devices. Q: How can I delete virtual card from a single device or multiple devices, if I don`t want to use it? A: For Single Mobile Device below steps to be followed From Multiple Mobile Devices, you can contact call center and get your virtual card deleted from all devices. Q: Is there any limit for payment through Virtual Card? A: Daily transaction limit for virtual card is PKR 100,000/day and per transaction limit is PKR 25,000/ regardless of local or international transaction. Q: Can I do multiple purchases with my virtual card? A: Yes, you can do multiple purchases within the specified amount limit. Q: How can I view the POS transactions done on the card? A: You can view the details of transaction through Account statement/E-Receipt option available in App. Q: What if I want to add more than one virtual card from other added account? A. User can only add/issue one virtual card against account number which was input at the time of registration, user cannot add more than one virtual card or virtual card from another tagged/added account. Q: Can I issue Virtual Card if I already have a Debit Card? A: Yes, you can issue virtual card. There is no link between Virtual Card and a Debit Card, both are for different features as mentioned below: a. Virtual Card is issued to enable QR/NFC Payments via NBP Digital. b. Debit Card is issued to enable NBP Digital financial transactions, ATM Withdrawals, E-Commerce Payments & POS Payments etc. Q: What is the difference between my Debit Card & Virtual Card? A: Both Cards are for different features as mentioned below: a. Virtual Card is issued to enable QR/NFC Payments via NBP Digital. b. Debit Card is issued to enable NBP Digital financial transactions, ATM Withdrawals, E-Commerce Payments & POS Payments etc. Debit Card Management Q: How can I get Debit Card issued? A: To issue a Debit Card through NBP Mobile App, follow the steps mentioned below: Step:1-Logon to NBP Digital Mobile App & access Debit Card Management tab from home screen. Step:2-Tap on Request a New Debit Card button. Step:3-Enter required details and Submit Step:4-Enter MPIN Successful request notification will be displayed on screen. Q: Are there any charges for card issuance? A: Card Issuance is free but there is an Annual (Upfront) Fee as per Bank's SOC which will be deducted from your account on annual basis and courier charges for delivery of the Card will also be deducted. Q: Will Bank deliver my Debit Card at home address? A: Yes, Card will be delivered on mailing address provided at the time of request. Q: What are the type of Cards that can be issued? A: You can issue following Debit Cards as per your choice: a. UnionPay Card b. PayPak Card Q: What Services are available on UnionPay Card & PayPak Card? A: Following services are available: Services/Transactions UnionPay PayPak Cash Withdrawal (Local) Yes Yes Cash Withdrawal (International) Yes No POS Payments (Local) Yes Yes POS Payments (International) Yes No E-Commerce Payments Yes No Tap & Pay Yes No Q: Can I use my Debit Card globally? A: Union Pay Card can be used globally but you need to activate it for global usage through NBP Call Center. Whereas, PayPak Card cannot be used globally. Q: How will I know if my card is dispatched? A: We will notify you through SMS at every stage i.e. from receiving Card Issuance request till Card Delivery. Q. What Should I do if My Card is Lost or Stolen? A: You can block the card in following ways: a. Login to NBP Digital & access Debit Card Management, tap on the Card for which you want to change "Status", click radio button to change status from "Active" to "In-active". b. Call NBP Helpline at 021-111-627-627 immediately to block Debit Card to avoid any inconvenience and you can request a new Debit Card through NBP Digital by mentioning the issuance reason as "Stolen" or "Lost". Q: What if my Debit Card got Expired? A: You can request a new Debit Card through NBP Digital by mentioning the issuance reason as "Expired". Q. I have received the card but it`s not working what should I do? A: You have to activate your Debit Card through NBP Digital Mobile App. Q: How can I activate my Debit Card through NBP Digital Mobile App? A: To activate your Debit Card through NBP Mobile App, follow the steps mentioned below: Step:1-Logon to NBP Digital Mobile App & access Debit Card Management tab from home screen. Step:2- Tap on the Card you want to activate from list of the Cards displayed. Step:3-Enter required details, Create Card PIN and Submit Step:4-Enter MPIN Successful request notification will be displayed on screen. Q. How will I receive Card PIN? A: PIN will be generated by you during Card Activation process through NBP Digital Mobile App. Q: Can I change my Card PIN? A: Yes, you can always change Card PIN through NBP Digital Mobile App. Q: I forgot my Card PIN, from where should I get it now? A: You can reset your Card PIN online. Logon to NBP Digital & access Card Management tab to Change PIN. Q: Can I Change my Card Status through NBP Digital? A: Yes, logon to NBP Digital & access Debit Card Management, tap on the Card for which you want to change "Status", click radio button to change status to "Active" & "In-active". Q: What should I do if my card is being used fraudulently by someone else? A: You should immediately Call NBP Helpline at 021-111-627-627 to report the fraud & block your Card. Q: Can I issue Virtual Card if I already have a Debit Card? A: Yes, you can issue virtual card. There is no link between Virtual Card and a Debit Card, both are for different features as mentioned below: c. Virtual Card is issued to enable QR/NFC Payments via NBP Digital. d. Debit Card is issued to enable NBP Digital financial transactions, ATM Withdrawals, E-Commerce Payments & POS Payments etc. Q: What is the difference between my Debit Card & Virtual Card? A: Both Cards are for different features as mentioned below: c. Virtual Card is issued to enable QR/NFC Payments via NBP Digital. d. Debit Card is issued to enable NBP Digital financial transactions, ATM Withdrawals, E-Commerce Payments & POS Payments etc. Q: Do I need to block my Card if my mobile is stolen? A: No, you just need to block your Mobile App registration. As long as your Card is safe & with you, you can use it. Q: Will my Debit Card get blocked which is issued through Mobile App if I get my mobile app blocked? A: No, Mobile App blocking and Card blocking are treated as separate functions. RAAST Q.What is RAAST? A: Raast is Pakistan`s first instant payment system that will enable end-to-end digital payments among individuals, businesses and government entities promptly. The state-of-the-art Pakistan`s Faster Payment System will be used to settle small-value retail payments in real time while at the same time provide a cheap and universal access to all players in the financial industry including banks and fintechs. For further information, please visit: Q. What is RAAST ID? A: It`s a simple identifier (currently mobile number) that you link with your bank account, through this Raast ID you can start receiving funds in your linked account. Q. How to create RAAST ID? A: Logon to NBP Digital App, access RAAST tab and go to RAAST ID management to create new ID. Q. How Raast is different from IBFT (Interbank Fund Transfer)? A: In IBFT bank account number is required for sending and receiving payments, whereas through RAAST you can send and receive money from anywhere across Pakistan on your registered Raast ID. Q. Is there any limit on Raast Transaction? A: Yes, per day transfer limit is PKR 200,000 Q. What are the charges for Raast Transaction? A: There are no charges for Raast Transaction. Q. Can I create more than one Raast ID? A: No, a customer can only create/register 1 Raast ID with one linked account. Q. Can I link more than one bank account with Raast ID? A: No, you can only link one bank account to your Raast ID at a time. Q. If the beneficiary has deleted his Raast ID then will the transaction be successful? A: No, the transaction will be rejected if the beneficiary has deleted his Raast ID Q. Can I change linked account with my Raast ID? A: Yes, you can de-link your Raast ID from your current bank account and can re-link that Raast ID with another bank account. Q. Can I use Raast for international payments/Receipts? A: No, RAAST is currently activated for only local transfers within Pakistan. Referral Code Campaign Q: What is Referral Code? A: A referral code is a NBP Employee`s 5-digit Employee No/SAP ID which will be used in NBP Digital referral program/Campaign. Q: How referral code will be used in NBP Digital? A: Any NBP employee will provide his/her SAP ID to customers so that it can be used while registration, Debit card issuance request & Debit card activation. This code will be used to track NBP Employees who referred customers for NBP Digital Registration, Debit card issuance and Debit card activation from NBP Digital. Q: Is referral code is mandatory for NBP Digital Registration, Debit Card Issuance and Debit Card Activation? A: No, it`s optional, customer can still register NBP Digital, request for Debit Card and Activate Debit Card without entering referral code in NBP Digital. Q: Which are the channels to be used for activation of cards and included in Golootlo campaign to refer staff Code. There are three channels to activate EMV Debit Cards I.e. Call Center, SMS & Mobile App. But referral code can be added on Mobile App only. So Cards Activation through Mobile App with Referral code of NBP Staff and if activation is done through Call center then referral code of agents will be given at the time of Mobile App registration will be included in the Campaign lucky draws. Huawei Pay-Virtual Card Linking Q: Will I be able to add my Virtual Card in another App for payments? A: Yes, you can add or link your virtual card in Huawei Pay Wallet App in Huawei & Honor Phones. NBP Virtual Card Holders can bind their NBP UPI Virtual Card with Huawei Pay Wallet Application. Users will have an additional channel to use its already issued UPI Virtual Card on Huawei Pay Wallet Application to make transactions. Q: What is Huawei Wallet Pay? A: Huawei Wallet Pay is a mobile payment service launched by Huawei in 2016. Through this wallet application, after adding a bank card, users can make payments by tapping their NFC-capable phones against a contactless payment terminal or card reader. Huawei Pay makes payments secure and convenient. It uses a device-specific number known as a token instead of bank card number to handle transactions. Bank card number is not stored on mobile device or on Huawei Pay servers, and is not shared with merchants. Q: From where I can download Huawei Pay Wallet App? A: You can download Huawei Wallet App from Huawei App Gallery from your Huawei or Honor mobile phones. Q: Are there any addition charges on Huawei Pay? A: No additional charges on transactions performed through Huawei Pay Wallet Application. Whereas charges for international QR and NFC/Tap & Pay will remain same as mentioned above. Q: Where I can use Huawei Pay? A: You can use Huawei Pay in Pakistan and outside Pakistan as well. Q: On which Handsets Huawei Pay Wallet App will work? A: Huawei Pay Wallet App and its QR Payments will work on all Huawei and Honor Phones in Pakistan, but for NFC/Tap & Pay transactions, it will only work on mobile phones which have NFC feature available in a device. Q: How can I add my Virtual Card in Huawei Pay Wallet App? A: Following are the steps to add Virtual card in Huawei Pay: - Download Huawei Wallet app from Huawei App Gallery or Play Store from Huawei Phone. - Login on Huawei Pay Wallet App with valid credentials. - User select add a bank card option and enters his/her "NBP UPI Virtual Card number" in Huawei Pay Wallet App - User tap on "Agree" button for Terms & Conditions - User enters registered Mobile Number. - User extracts OTP from SMS received from NBP and enters the same on Huawei Pay to link a card. Q: What financial transactions I can perform through Huawei Pay? A: User can perform following financial transactions: 1. Merchant presented QR payment (Local & International) 1. Consumer presented QR payment (Local & International) 2. Tap to Pay/ NFC Payments (Local & International) Q: What Non-financial transactions I can perform through Huawei Pay? A: User can perform following Non-financial transactions: 1. Addition of NBP UPI Virtual Card in Huawei Pay Wallet App 1. Create Payment PIN 2. Change Payment PIN 3. Forgot Payment PIN 4. Remove NBP UPI Virtual Card from Huawei Wallet Shariah Restrictions Q: What are the Shariah related restrictions on NBP Mobile Banking / Internet Banking Transaction? A: NBP Mobile Banking Application / Internet Banking shall not be used as payment for Shariah prohibited product(s). In this regard, Bank has right to block the NBP Mobile Banking Application / Internet Banking immediately if transaction is executed for Shariah prohibited product(s). Further, Q: What are the prohibited merchants/products? A: NBP Mobile Banking Application / Internet Banking shall not be used as payment for following Shariah prohibited merchant(s)/product(s). However, list of prohibited merchant(s)/product(s) will be updated on bank`s website from time to time. 5715 Wholesaler - alcohol 5733 Music shops - musical instruments, pianos, and sheet music 7273 Dating and escort services
The Inter Boards Committee of Chairmen is hereby re-constituted and re-structured as the Inter Boards Coordination Commission to act and deal with the issues relating to the standardization of examination, assessment, evaluation and allied matters connected there to at secondary and higher secondary school levels through coordination along with recognition of local and foreign qualifications. The IBCC was set up at Federal Level in 1972 with the responsibilities to exchange information among the members Boards on all aspects of Intermediate and Secondary Education in order to achieve a fair measure of uniformity of academic evaluation and curricular standards and to promote curricular and extra-curricular activities on Inter Board basis including to serve as a forum of discussion and consultation for the chief executives of the Boards on all matters relating to the development and promotion of Intermediate and Secondary Education, and to make suitable recommendations to the Government. It is also obligatory for IBCC to advise on and facilitate the exchange of teachers and students including perform such other functions as may be incidental or conducive to the attainment of the objectives, besides authentication of Educational documents issued by the recognized examining bodies and equivalence of foreign qualification up-to Higher Secondary level. In a proactive move towards enhancing educational infrastructure, the Federal Secretary Mr. Mohyuddin Ahmad Wani, recently visited Islamabad Girls Middle School G-6/2 to oversee ongoing renovation and improvements in facilities supported by IBCC. This initiative underscores the government's commitment to providing conducive learning environments for students across the country. Executive Director IBCC, Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah visited IBCC Regional Office Lahore On Wednesday April 17, 2024. During the visit he observed the facilities and services provided to the public. Executive Director IBCC Dr Mallah attended meeting on 15 April held with all HODs and Officers of Ministry Chaired by Federal Secretary Education regarding PM’s Special Initiatives on Education. MoU with General Post Office to use their services The Executive Director of IBCC called a meeting of IT staff and officially launched IBCC’s 100-Day Plan to improve education in line with the Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training's vision. IBCC is planning to enhance the Equivalence Portal, streamline administrative processes, and boost educator training programs. Prof. Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Executive Director IBCC, participated as the chief guest at the recognition day event held at Islamabad Convent School H-8/4 on March 27, 2024. Commendation to the Ministry of Federal Education & Professional Training for orchestrating a remarkable event on International Education Day! IBCC extends heartfelt congratulations for promoting the power of education and fostering global awareness. Two-day 178th meeting of IBCC Forum started in Islamabad (Feb 26-27). Chief Executives of all exam boards, Curriculum Councils, Textbook Boards, Technical Boards, Commissioners attending the meeting to discuss Annual Exam & Assessment plan for the upcoming academic session. Former Vice Chancellor AIOU Dr Nazir Sangi, Sqdn Leader Imran Mahesar, Dr Hakim Buriro visited IBCC and met Executive Director Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah Minister of Federal Education & Professional Training visited IBCC Regional Office Karachi Mr Saidjon Shafiev, Deputy Head of Mission Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan visited IBCC Secretariat, Islamabad and had a meeting with Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Executive Director IBCC. During his visit, he was given a comprehensive briefing by Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, the Executive Director of IBCC, shedding light on the organization's vital mandate, functions, roles, and responsibilities. The minister assured his support for the ongoing initiatives and reforms introduced by IBCC, underscoring the government's determination to foster... First-ever meeting of BoG, Inter Boards Coordination Commission (IBCC) held at Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training, chaired by Federal Secretary/ Chairman BoG. The Counsel General of Sudan Embassy in Pakistan visited the IBCC Secretariat and met with the Secretary IBCC to discuss the equivalence of Sudanese qualifications and opportunities for Sudanese students. Secretary IBCC Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah meeting with Ben, Director of American Qualifications Asia in Thailand - Dr. Mallah presented the annual report and shield of IBCC to Ben and presented him with a beautiful gift of Sindhi Ajrak. Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC Islamabad, along with Muhammad Usman, Director IBCC, met HE Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry, High Commissioner of Pakistan for Australia, at Canberra and discussed multiple initiatives taken for the facilitation of local and overseas students. The equivalence of Pakistani-Australian Secondary & Senior Secondary level Qualifications &... Secretary IBCC, Prof Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah participated as Chief Guest in the Annual Function of AIMS Schools and Colleges, Barakahu, Islamabad and distributed awards amongst position holders. Mr. Amir Zeb, Director of Training at Association of Academic Quality (AFAQ) visited IBCC Secretariat, Islamabad and had a meeting with Secretary IBCC. Dr. Shaista Sohail, Executive Director, Higher Education Commission (HEC), Dr. Fouzia Tanveer Sheikh, Principal Islamabad Model College for Girls F-7/2, Islamabad and Mr. Azam Habib, Entrepreneur visited IBCC Secretariat, Islamabad. Prof Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah presented IBCC Annual Report 2022 to the honourable guests. Mr. Faisal Mahmood, the Country Director of TCL Global, (an esteemed education counselling centre, providing comprehensive guidance and support to students who aspire to pursue higher education opportunities in local and international institutions) paid a visit to the Inter Board Committee of Chairmen (IBCC) and met with Prof. Dr. Ghulam... Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361 Please choose any of the following recommended courier service provider for sending your application: Documents sent through any other service will not be accepted.
The Inter Boards Committee of Chairmen is hereby re-constituted and re-structured as the Inter Boards Coordination Commission to act and deal with the issues relating to the standardization of examination, assessment, evaluation and allied matters connected there to at secondary and higher secondary school levels through coordination along with recognition of local and foreign qualifications. The IBCC was set up at Federal Level in 1972 with the responsibilities to exchange information among the members Boards on all aspects of Intermediate and Secondary Education in order to achieve a fair measure of uniformity of academic evaluation and curricular standards and to promote curricular and extra-curricular activities on Inter Board basis including to serve as a forum of discussion and consultation for the chief executives of the Boards on all matters relating to the development and promotion of Intermediate and Secondary Education, and to make suitable recommendations to the Government. It is also obligatory for IBCC to advise on and facilitate the exchange of teachers and students including perform such other functions as may be incidental or conducive to the attainment of the objectives, besides authentication of Educational documents issued by the recognized examining bodies and equivalence of foreign qualification up-to Higher Secondary level. IBCC has been moving forward and contributing since its inception in accordance with its mandate quite successfully and accordingly adopted updated trends in every field for accuracy, uniformity, and authentication of legitimate testimonials of entitled/eligible applicants. To bring utmost perfection through coordination among the member Educational Boards for uniformity in evaluation / assessment standards up-to Higher Secondary level including educational documents thereof. To create ways and means for maintaining uniformity among Educational Boards through consultation and coordination process to up-grade evaluation / assessment standards across the country by introducing variety of modern techniques. Transforming of Educational Boards activities in a way to fulfill futuristic needs and maintain liaison among the member Boards in accordance with prevailing new trends in the field of Education within domain of IBCC’s mandate. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
IBCC Officers/Staff E-Office training session arranged by IT Section in collaboration with NITB to make use of modern technology to expedite the office affairs at IBCC Secretariat. Secretary IBCC also attended the training session and said that the adoption of digital system would eliminate outdated office system and the new... A meeting of IBCC and Tech-Valley held at IBCC Secretariat. Secretary IBCC, Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah chaired the meeting and Mr. Umar Farooq, CEO Tech-Valley give presentation on Google for Education, Google Workspace and Chrome Book. Both the organization discussed and share new ideas which will help the education system... A meeting of provincial heads of BCCs held today at IBCC Secretariat to discuss Anomalies on Promotion Policy for Examination 2021. On the directives of Federal Minister for Education & Professional Training Mr. Shafqat Mahmood, an important meeting of IBCC IT & Equivalence Team was held at IBCC Secretariat to launch e-Office & e-Filing system at IBCC Secretariat. The meeting was chaired by Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC. Dr. Mallah... A letter shown to be under signatures of the Secretary Exams regarding Class 9 & 11 promotion policy is lurking in social media. In this regard, it is officially clarified that no such letter was issued by the IBCC neither we have a position of secretary exam at IBCC. It... It has been noticed that some individuals posing themselves as “agents” of IBCC are offering services to get equivalence certificates and attestation of documents from IBCC. These individuals are also cheating the applicants by pasting fake IBCC Stamps/Tickets on original certificates. All such activities are criminal and such certificates shall... An online meeting was held on Tuesday, June 22, 2021, to discuss the Digitization of BISEs of Pakistan for Electronic Verification of Records of SSC & HSSC. Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC, Dr. Mirza Habib, Chairman BISE Lahore, Rana Muhammad Khawar Deputy Director IBCC, and representatives of BIE Karachi,... A meeting of the IBCC National Steering Committee (NSC) held at IBCC Islamabad to discuss the policy of SSC & HSSC examination 2021 and COVID SOPs to be followed by invigilation staff and students during the conduct of the examination. A weekly meeting of IBCC officers, chaired by Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah, Secretary IBCC, was held at IBCC Secretariat. In this meeting, it was decided that the Walk-in Mode of Attestation & Equivalence has been resumed at IBCC Islamabad, and its Regional Offices with effect from June 8, 2021. Applicants... Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The Inter Boards Committee of Chairmen is hereby re-constituted and re-structured as the Inter Boards Coordination Commission to act and deal with the issues relating to the standardization of examination, assessment, evaluation and allied matters connected there to at secondary and higher secondary school levels through coordination along with recognition of local and foreign qualifications. The IBCC was set up at Federal Level in 1972 with the responsibilities to exchange information among the members Boards on all aspects of Intermediate and Secondary Education in order to achieve a fair measure of uniformity of academic evaluation and curricular standards and to promote curricular and extra-curricular activities on Inter Board basis including to serve as a forum of discussion and consultation for the chief executives of the Boards on all matters relating to the development and promotion of Intermediate and Secondary Education, and to make suitable recommendations to the Government. It is also obligatory for IBCC to advise on and facilitate the exchange of teachers and students including perform such other functions as may be incidental or conducive to the attainment of the objectives, besides authentication of Educational documents issued by the recognized examining bodies and equivalence of foreign qualification up-to Higher Secondary level. IBCC has been moving forward and contributing since its inception in accordance with its mandate quite successfully and accordingly adopted updated trends in every field for accuracy, uniformity, and authentication of legitimate testimonials of entitled/eligible applicants. To bring utmost perfection through coordination among the member Educational Boards for uniformity in evaluation / assessment standards up-to Higher Secondary level including educational documents thereof. To create ways and means for maintaining uniformity among Educational Boards through consultation and coordination process to up-grade evaluation / assessment standards across the country by introducing variety of modern techniques. Transforming of Educational Boards activities in a way to fulfill futuristic needs and maintain liaison among the member Boards in accordance with prevailing new trends in the field of Education within domain of IBCC’s mandate. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Education is the basic right of every child and a very important aspect for progress of any nation. In the modern era no nation can survive without quality education. Human Resource Development is the central pillar of the government policy and education plays a fundamental role towards the formation of human social capital. All the organs of Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training, Islamabad are playing their role to this effect according to their respective mandates. I feel Inter Boards Coordination Commission has been contributing with due mission and vision mandated to it. After visualizing its achievements within the sphere of its mandate, I feel that IBCC has been moving towards right direction with a capable team to cope with its official obligations fairly, to be kept up with same zeal. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Education is as much a philosophical undertaking braced by social as well as educational values, as it is a technical operation executed by an executive body of experts and professionals. IBCC is thus uniquely mandated as a body that serves as a high-value forum for consultation and exchange of ideas by all the Education Boards of the country on all important matters related to the development and promotion of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Ministry of Federal Education & Professional Training is cognizant that assessments and examinations carry supreme importance in developing learners to be able to negotiate the challenges of modern-day global education and to become responsible citizens. IBCC is making a significant, ongoing contribution through efficient advisory for defining standards and practices for Education Boards. This is a great contribution by IBCC to human resource development through reflecting on effective design, delivery, and promotion of a wide range of high-quality, affordable assessments and examinations executed by Education Boards in Pakistan. The government of Pakistan is on the mission to achieve excellence and equity for all the children and youth in Pakistan. Collectively, we are committed to every student having equal access to education opportunities no matter their background or circumstance. Mr. Mohyuddin Ahmad Wani Federal Secretary, Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Address:Plot No. 25,Street 38, G10/4, Near Federal Govt. Employees Housing Authority (FGEHA), Islamabad Phone: (051)111 114 222, (051)9106631, (051)8735969 Mrs. Sabina Naveen Phone: 051)111 114 222, (051)9106631, (051)8735969 Email: info@ibcc.edu.pk Monday - Friday 08:30 AM to 04:30 PM Saturday and Sunday - Closed Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The issue of ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students whose results are due to be announced on 11th January 2021 and require equivalence to be issued by IBCC before 19th January 2021, being the last date to apply for admissions to medical colleges, was raised by the Pakistan Medical Commission with the Government of Pakistan and IBCC. To alleviate the concerns of the ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students and provide maximum facility to them, the Federal Minister for Education Mr. Shafqat Mahmood and SAPM Health Dr Faisal Sultan immediately requested IBCC to take urgent steps in consultation with the Pakistan Medical Commission to assist the students and ensure that they are able to apply for their medical college admissions. An emergent meeting was held between Dr Ghulam Ali Mallah (Secretary IBCC) and Muhammad Ali Raza (Vice President PMC) at PMC Head office on 30th December 2020 to address the issue of ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students. The Secretary IBCC briefed on the recent approved policy of IBCC that provisional equivalence would be issued after verification of online results to facilitate ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level students for applying to medical & professional colleges. IBCC, has announced an expedited special policy on the directions of the Federal Minister for Education, endorsed by Steering Committee of IBCC, to collect application from students appeared in ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level examination from 31st December, 2020. Such students are required to submit their application through TCS or they will also be accommodated through walk-in mode by observing the SOPs adopted to cope with COVID-19 pandemic. The walk-in mode of service will be resumed till January 30, 2021. The candidates will require to submit original and attested copies of ‘O’ & ‘A’ Level certificates passed before November 2020 and Statement of Entry of November, 2020 Examination. The candidates will also require to submit an affidavit that in case of any alteration with the results or documents IBCC reserves the right to take action in the light of IBCC regulations. After receipt of online results, IBCC will prepare provisional equivalence within three days which can be collected from IBCC (Head Office) Islamabad or its regional offices of Bahawalpur, Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta. IBCC will also send the provisional equivalence by e-mail to the candidates to facilitate in timely admission process. Click on the image to download. to download. to view details. to view details. IBCC has officially designated the TCS Courier to facilitate the domestic attestation/equivalence seekers for getting attestation/equivalence of educational documents from all over Pakistan. In this regard, the applicants will hand over the application form, required documents and attestation/equivalence fee along with courier service charges at respective centres of Courier Service for the purpose of attestation/equivalence. The courier company would be responsible for returning the submitted documents back to the applicants at their specified/given addresses. Human life is a combination of continuous struggle and only those who mark them on the everlasting pages of history put their heart and soul to achieve their goals. When comes to the field of education, its importance can’t be denied. Education for a normal person in society is not a big deal… But today we are talking about a courageous boy, Zain-ul-Abdin who is a symbol of great determination. A child of high resolution who did not take his disability as a hurdle in the way of his education. Physically he may be disabled, but his mind is as sharp as all of us, maybe sharper than all of us. His wit is well complimented by his courage and determination to prove a point that disability is abstract, his will to excel in life is concrete. IBCC appreciates the Gemstone of our society. IBCC salutes all those efforts done by the child to attain knowledge and a prominent position in society… IBCC wholeheartedly lauds the efforts of the Muzaffarabad Board also in helping Zain-ul-Abdin to make his dream come true and showing the fact to society that disability is not a hurdle in leading a graceful and honourable life… Process time of IBCC Attestation All the candidates, who approach the IBCC for authentication of their documents, are requested to please follow the instructions and produce or collect documents on turn. A proper mechanism has been operating for service delivery and check & balance, even then, if there is any complaint, it’s adressal system is vigilant. Moreover, proper drinking water and protection from weather’s hardness is fairly arranged. The only expectation of IBCC is cooperation with its deployed staff. We believe in sincere service delivery fairly. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Tele: – 051-9106633 Fax: 051-9106361 Email: – usman@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106632 Fax: – 051-9106361 Email: – muneeb@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106634 Fax: – 051-9106635 Email: – ammar@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106631 Fax: – 051-9106361 Email: – wali@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – Fax: – Email: – khawar@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – Fax: – Email: – nelofar@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106688 Fax: – Email: – atif@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106362 Fax: – Email: – maqbool@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106443 Fax: – Email: – shafaqat@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106631 Fax: – Email: – sabina@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106631 Fax: – Email: – khurram@ibcc.edu.pk Ph:-021-99244121 Fax:-021-99244122 Email: – ejaz@ibcc.edu.pk Ph:-042-99205655 Fax:-042-36293013 Email: – Ph:-091-9216088 Fax:- Email: – Ph: – 081-2826716 Fax: – 081-2826716 Email: Ph: – 062-9255601 Fax: – Email: – muteeb@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Subjects Groups Subjects Mathematics Urdu Pak-Studies, Islamiyat & English Physics Chemistry & Biology / Computer Science English Physics Chemistry Biology Pre-Engineering English Mathematics Physics Chemistry General Mathematics Urdu Pak-Studies Islamiyat & English General Science And Two Subjects from the following: 1.Economics 2.Civics 3.Physiology and Hygiene 4.Geometrical and Technical 5.Arts and Model Drawing 6.Environmental Studies 7.Islamic Studies or Islamic 8.History of Indo-Pak Sub-Continent 9.Arabic 10.Persian 11.Food and Nutrition 12.Related Arts 13.Household Accounts & Related Problems 14.Computer Science OR One subject from above list and one Technical subject English Any of the following Combinations: 1. Physics, Mathematics, Statistics 2.Mathematics, Statistics, Economics 3.Economics, Mathematics, Computer Science 4.Physics, Mathematics, Computer Science 5.Mathematics, Statistics, Computer Science Humanities English 6.Statistics 7.Health & Physical Education 8. Persian 9.Psychology 10.Home Economics 11.Geography 12.Civics 13.Urdu Advance 14.Arabic 15.English Literature Computer Science may be offered in any combination of three subjects Technical Group Islamiyat 2.General Science And Two Technical subjects Dars-i-Nizami Pak-Studies English 2.General Science 3.Seeratul- Rasool 4.Al-Quran 5.Al Hadith wal Fiqah Dars-i-Nizami Islamiyat 1.Al-Quran 2.Al Hadith wa usool-ul- Hadith 3.Al Fiqah wa usool-ul-Fiqah 4.Al Adab al Arabi wal Qawaid wal Insha Part II: – Any two subjects from the following: 1.Islamic History 2.Philosophy 3.Education 4.Economics 5.Geography 6.Civics 7.Computer Science 8.Psychology 9.Statistics 10.Home Economics Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The major principle for equivalence of qualification is to identify the relevant stage in the Pakistani System by considering the number of schooling years and subjects of a foreign system if the system does not match with the Pakistani model. A) GCSE/IGCSE/GCE ‘O’ Levels: B) GCE A-Levels: The International Baccalaureate (IB), formerly the International Baccalaureate Organization (IBO), is an International Educational Foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. Founded in 1968 in Geneva, IB offers three educational programmers for children ages 3-19. International Baccalaureate (IB) Programme: IBCC considers IB Middle Years Programme (MYP) and IB Diploma Programme (DP) from Geneva, Switzerland equivalent to SSC and HSSC (relevant group) of Pakistan, respectively. Conversion for Equivalence Middle Years Programme (MYP): International Baccalaureate Middle Years Program (MYP) (with the minimum of five academic subjects including English and Mathematics) from external examining body Geneva, Switzerland is equivalent to SSC (relevant group) of Pakistan. Conversion of MYP into Secondary School Equivalent Certificate Diploma Programme (DP) The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (DP) with a minimum of five required subjects from external Examining body Geneva, Switzerland is equivalent to HSSC (relevant group) of Pakistan. Conversion of IB Diploma into Higher Secondary School Equivalent Certificate Conversion of International Baccalaureate Career-related programme into Higher Secondary School Equivalent Certificate (Relevant Group) The Certificate of the Career-related Programme will be awarded subject to the satisfactory completion of the following requirements by a candidate: The completion of the career-related study is the basic requirement for the issuance of an equivalence certificate in addition to the completion of other requirements. The IBCC will equate the grading of DP courses passed in the Career-related Programme as per the approved formula available on the IBCC website (Same as for the IB Diploma). The candidate has to pass at least two for (Humanities Group) and Three for (Pre-Medical/Pre-Engineering Group) of the Higher level Diploma Programme Courses in grade 3 or more. The IBCC will equate the grading of the Reflective project only to at least a D for the reflective project. The other core subjects i.e: Personal and Professional skills, Service training and Language development are internally assessed by the school so only completion is the basic requirement for issuance of an equivalence certificate. I) IBCC only considers IB Diploma comprising six subject groups and the Diploma Programme (DP) core, comprising Theory of Knowledge (TOK), Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) and the extended essay equivalent to grade 12/HSSC (relevant group) and IBCC doesn’t consider IB certificate as equivalent to HSSC. II) All Pakistani nationals appearing for examinations from Pakistan shall have to pass Urdu, Islamiyat and Pakistan studies along with other required subjects to qualify for equivalence. III) The Equivalence Committee resolved to approve the career related program offered by International Baccalaureate (IBO) in Science subjects for issuance of Equivalence Certificate of HSSC (Pre-Medical/Pre-Engineering Group) of Pakistan. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email equivalence@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The Government of Pakistan has authorized IBCC to attest certificates / diplomas at Secondary and Higher Secondary / Intermediate levels, awarded by all Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education and Boards of Technical Education in Pakistan and other such Boards at Secondary and Higher Secondary levels. Islamabad Head Office Deputy Director (Attestation & Academics), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, Plot No. 25,Street 38, G10/4, Near Federal Govt. Employees Housing Authority (FGEHA) Islamabad. Phone; (051) 9106631 Fax: Karachi Regional Office Director (Equivalence & Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, Regional Office at Plot No. ST-2, National Stadium Road, Opposite Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi. Ph:-021-99230583 Email: – karachi@ibcc.edu.pk Lahore Regional Office Deputy Director (Equivalence and Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, At Queen Plaza Durand Road, Lahore. Phone; (042) 36293013 Fax; (042) 36293013 Peshawar Regional Office Assistant Director(Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, At Abdara Road Near Shelton House, University Town, Peshawar. Phone; (091) 9216088 Fax; (091) 9216088 Quetta Regional Office Office Incharge (Equivalence and Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, Akhtar Plaza Spiny Road Near RBC (Regional Blood Centre) Quetta. Phone; (081) 2873633 Fax; (081)2826716 Bahawalpur Regional Office Office Incharge (Equivalence and Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, D-5/5, Aziz Bhatti Road, Model Town-A, Bahawalpur, Punjab. Ph: – 062-9255601 Fax: – For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email attestation@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
IBCC verifies the equivalence certificates issued by Inter Boards Coordination Commission. For this purpose, Universities, Professional Colleges and Organizations where such certificate holders take admission or job respectively, their documents can get verified through IBCC. IBCC does not verify the documents to third party where the purpose of verification is unknown, therefore, the organization who wants to verify the credentials/documents should clearly mention the purpose. The request for verification should be sent on official letter head of the department. IBCC will verify the documents on submission of prescribed fee of Rs: 600/- per certificate and Rs. 300/- on account of courier charges. Online Fee challan form is available on IBCC’s website. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email eqverify@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The conversion formula for grades of International Baccalaureate Middle Years Program (MYP) & International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (DP) awarded by International Baccalaureate Geneva, Switzerland (For External Exams) Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Examination and Assessment Practices in Pakistan The Annual Conference on Assessment and Examination represents a significant step forward in our commitment to improving the quality of education in Pakistan. By fostering collaboration, knowledge exchange, and innovation in assessment and examination practices, it is expected to ensure that the education system is more responsive to the needs of our students and society as a whole. This conference will serve as a platform for continuous improvement and the creation of a brighter future for our education system. Examination and Assessment Practices in Pakistan Welcome! Register now for the Exams and Assessment Conference organized by IBCC. Engage with leading experts, share insights, and explore the latest trends in assessment methodologies. Secure your spot to present your research, gain valuable knowledge, and network with peers in the field. Register today to reserve your place in shaping the future of examinations and assessments. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
INTER BOARDS COORDINATION COMMISSION Plot No. 25,Street 38, G10/4, Near Federal Govt. Employees Housing Authority (FGEHA), Islamabad. Ph:-051-111 114 222 Fax:- Email: – islamabad@ibcc.edu.pk INTER BOARDS COORDINATION COMMISSION Regional Office at Queen Plaza, 13-A Durand Road, Lahore, Punjab. Ph:-042-36293013 Fax:-042-36293013 Email: – lahore@ibcc.edu.pk INTER BOARDS COORDINATION COMMISSION Regional Office at D-5/5, Aziz Bhatti Road, Model Town-A, Bahawalpur, Punjab. Ph: – 062-9255601 Fax: – Email: – bahawalpur@ibcc.edu.pk INTER BOARDS COORDINATION COMMISSION Regional Office at Plot No. ST-2, National Stadium Road, Opposite Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi. Ph:-021-99230583 Email: – karachi@ibcc.edu.pk INTER BOARDS COORDINATION COMMISSION Regional Office at 13/C Abdara Road Near Shelton House, University Town, Peshawar, N.W.F.P. Ph:-091-9216088 Fax:- Email: – peshawar@ibcc.edu.pk INTER BOARDS COORDINATION COMMISSION Regional Office at Akhtar Plaza Spiny Road Near RBC (Regional Blood Centre) Quetta, Balochistan. Ph: – 081-2873633 Fax: – 081-2826716 Email: – quetta@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you all to the official website of IBCC which has been revamped on the directions of Federal Minister for Education & Professional Trainings to enhance service and quick response to public. The technology based assessment to make examination system more efficient, transparent & reliable is our top priority because we understand that quality of assessment plays important role in the process of teaching and learning. The continuous up-gradation of our evaluation system on modern lines to bring therein transparency, credibility and fairness is main agenda of IBCC. The IBCC team is working hard to offer better service delivery by introducing intelligence & smartness in all internal & external processes; whereas an effective complaint redressal system through UAN, emails & social media has also been developed. DR. GHULAM ALI MALLAH Executive Director Prof. Dr. Ghulam Ali Mallah is an eminent scholar of international level in Computer Science currently working as Executive Director, IBCC Islamabad. Previously, Dr. Mallah was the Professor & Head of Computer Sciences in the Shah Abdul Latif University, Khairpur. Dr. Mallah acquired his Master’s degree from Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad, and Ph.D. in Computer Science through HEC Indigenous Scholarship from FAST-Karachi & SALU Khairpur. Dr. Mallah also achieved Post-doctorate in Educational Technology & Academic Leadership from Glasgow University, Scotland, UK. He has more than 45 articles at his credit, having recognition nationally & internationally. He has also supervised more than 100 BS/MS/Ph.D. projects. Dr. Mallah is the winner of 04 HEC-Funded R&D projects. Dr. Mallah joined SALU in 1996 where he accomplished various administrative assignments for the advancement of S.A.L.U. in the capacity of Chairman Department of Computer Science, Focal Person Women University Sukkur, Focal Person International Linkages & Exchange Programs, Chairman Department of Teacher Education, Advisor to Vice Chancellor for Planning & Development, Director P&D, Director Computerized Students Attendance Cell, and Network Administrator, etc. Dr. Mallah was a brilliant inclusion in the field of Education, who won the Indigenous Ph.D. Scholarship, “ICT Excellence Award 2012” in the category of “IT Education”. He is the organizer of FOUR consecutive International Conferences on Computer & Emerging Technologies and ONE International Conference on Research in Education & Technologies 2017. He is a pioneer of the Department of Teacher Education and Faculty of Education, the projects of USAID. He has vast experience of working with HEC, British Council, USAID, United States Education Foundation, etc. He is actively involved in various national & international professional bodies for Quality Assurance in HEIs, Curriculum Designing, Accreditations, Tertiary Education Support programs, Development of Strategic & Business Plans for HEIs, International Linkages, etc. In view of the above credible history of the Officer, his inclusion as Executive Director IBCC shall be a way forward for more improvement and betterment of IBCC, both academically and administratively. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Equivalence Certificate for approved qualification will be issued on submission of required documents alongwith application. To facilitate applicants, IBCC accepts equivalence application via three models i.e. online, walk-in and courier. For more detail please see instructions. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Equivalence Certificate for approved qualification will be issued on submission of required documents alongwith application. To facilitate applicants, IBCC accepts equivalence application via three models i.e. online, walk-in and courier. For more detail please see instructions. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Education is the basic right of every child and a very important aspect for progress of any nation. In the modern era no nation can survive without quality education. Human Resource Development is the central pillar of the government policy and education plays a fundamental role towards the formation of human social capital. All the organs of Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training, Islamabad are playing their role to this effect according to their respective mandates. I feel Inter Boards Coordination Commission has been contributing with due mission and vision mandated to it. After visualizing its achievements within the sphere of its mandate, I feel that IBCC has been moving towards right direction with a capable team to cope with its official obligations fairly, to be kept up with same zeal. Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Education is as much a philosophical undertaking braced by social as well as educational values, as it is a technical operation executed by an executive body of experts and professionals. IBCC is thus uniquely mandated as a body that serves as a high-value forum for consultation and exchange of ideas by all the Education Boards of the country on all important matters related to the development and promotion of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Ministry of Federal Education & Professional Training is cognizant that assessments and examinations carry supreme importance in developing learners to be able to negotiate the challenges of modern-day global education and to become responsible citizens. IBCC is making a significant, ongoing contribution through efficient advisory for defining standards and practices for Education Boards. This is a great contribution by IBCC to human resource development through reflecting on effective design, delivery, and promotion of a wide range of high-quality, affordable assessments and examinations executed by Education Boards in Pakistan. The government of Pakistan is on the mission to achieve excellence and equity for all the children and youth in Pakistan. Collectively, we are committed to every student having equal access to education opportunities no matter their background or circumstance. Mr. Mohyuddin Ahmad Wani Federal Secretary, Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Address:Plot No. 25,Street 38, G10/4, Near Federal Govt. Employees Housing Authority (FGEHA), Islamabad Phone: (051)111 114 222, (051)9106631, (051)8735969 Mrs. Sabina Naveen Phone: 051)111 114 222, (051)9106631, (051)8735969 Email: info@ibcc.edu.pk Monday - Friday 08:30 AM to 04:30 PM Saturday and Sunday - Closed Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
When an applicant approaches the IBCC Office for the determination of the equivalence of his/her foreign qualification the prescribed proforma/questionnaire is required to be filled by him/her. Through this questionnaire information about the following points is obtained: (i) Accreditation/recognition status of institution: The applicant is required to furnish information or documentary proof of the accreditation/recognition status of the institution from where he/she has passed the examination. If the Certificate/Diploma awarding body is the board or University then it is to be proved that it is authorised by Government of the country concerned to conduct examinations and issue Certificate/diplomas. (ii) Duration of the courses of study: While determining the equivalence of the Certificate/Diploma it is kept in mind as to what is the duration of the course of study leading to the earning of the particular Certificate/Diploma. The duration of the foreign Certificate/Diploma should not be in any case less than the duration of the similar certificate or diploma in Pakistan. It may be more. (iii) The intensity of the course: Alongwith the duration of the course of study, the number of days of study in a year and of hour of study in a day are also considered. (iv) Course contents: When new cases of equivalence are determined the syllabus and course contents are also to be compared with the syllabus and course contents of the similar Certificate/diploma in Pakistan. (v) Reference to the Ministries of Education and Embassies of the Foreign Countries: In some cases the IBCC office seeks information or guidance from either the embassies of concerned countries in Pakistan or from the Ministries of Education of those countries through our embassies there. (vi) Translation of the original Certificate: In many cases of foreign Certificate/Diplomas are in the national languages of those countries. In this case we get the Certificate/Diploma translated in English or in Urdu by National Institute of Modern Language in Islamabad. (vii) Consultation of subject experts: In some cases the advice of the subject experts or experts of the specialised area is sought. Cases are also sent to the Technical Boards for their views. (viii) Consultation of the British Council Guide to International Qualifications: In some cases we also consult the British Council Guide to International Qualifications of various countries and other relevant references. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email equivalence@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Tele: – 051-9106633 Fax: 051-9106361 Email: – usman@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106632 Fax: – 051-9106361 Email: – muneeb@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106634 Fax: – 051-9106635 Email: – ammar@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106631 Fax: – 051-9106361 Email: – wali@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – Fax: – Email: – khawar@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – Fax: – Email: – nelofar@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106688 Fax: – Email: – atif@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106362 Fax: – Email: – maqbool@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106443 Fax: – Email: – shafaqat@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106631 Fax: – Email: – sabina@ibcc.edu.pk Tele: – 051-9106631 Fax: – Email: – khurram@ibcc.edu.pk Ph:-021-99244121 Fax:-021-99244122 Email: – ejaz@ibcc.edu.pk Ph:-042-99205655 Fax:-042-36293013 Email: – Ph:-091-9216088 Fax:- Email: – Ph: – 081-2826716 Fax: – 081-2826716 Email: Ph: – 062-9255601 Fax: – Email: – muteeb@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Note: Grade 9 or 10 showing as passed through the school is not entertainable as these grades are to be passed through an external exam body. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email attestation@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
For Further queries or information regarding equivalence, please contact on following email eqverify@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The major principle for equivalence of qualification is to identify the relevant stage in the Pakistani System by considering the number of schooling years and subjects of a foreign system if the system does not match with the Pakistani model. A) GCSE/IGCSE/GCE ‘O’ Levels: B) GCE A-Levels: The International Baccalaureate (IB), formerly the International Baccalaureate Organization (IBO), is an International Educational Foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. Founded in 1968 in Geneva, IB offers three educational programmers for children ages 3-19. International Baccalaureate (IB) Programme: IBCC considers IB Middle Years Programme (MYP) and IB Diploma Programme (DP) from Geneva, Switzerland equivalent to SSC and HSSC (relevant group) of Pakistan, respectively. Conversion for Equivalence Middle Years Programme (MYP): International Baccalaureate Middle Years Program (MYP) (with the minimum of five academic subjects including English and Mathematics) from external examining body Geneva, Switzerland is equivalent to SSC (relevant group) of Pakistan. Conversion of MYP into Secondary School Equivalent Certificate Diploma Programme (DP) The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (DP) with a minimum of five required subjects from external Examining body Geneva, Switzerland is equivalent to HSSC (relevant group) of Pakistan. Conversion of IB Diploma into Higher Secondary School Equivalent Certificate Conversion of International Baccalaureate Career-related programme into Higher Secondary School Equivalent Certificate (Relevant Group) The Certificate of the Career-related Programme will be awarded subject to the satisfactory completion of the following requirements by a candidate: The completion of the career-related study is the basic requirement for the issuance of an equivalence certificate in addition to the completion of other requirements. The IBCC will equate the grading of DP courses passed in the Career-related Programme as per the approved formula available on the IBCC website (Same as for the IB Diploma). The candidate has to pass at least two for (Humanities Group) and Three for (Pre-Medical/Pre-Engineering Group) of the Higher level Diploma Programme Courses in grade 3 or more. The IBCC will equate the grading of the Reflective project only to at least a D for the reflective project. The other core subjects i.e: Personal and Professional skills, Service training and Language development are internally assessed by the school so only completion is the basic requirement for issuance of an equivalence certificate. I) IBCC only considers IB Diploma comprising six subject groups and the Diploma Programme (DP) core, comprising Theory of Knowledge (TOK), Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) and the extended essay equivalent to grade 12/HSSC (relevant group) and IBCC doesn’t consider IB certificate as equivalent to HSSC. II) All Pakistani nationals appearing for examinations from Pakistan shall have to pass Urdu, Islamiyat and Pakistan studies along with other required subjects to qualify for equivalence. III) The Equivalence Committee resolved to approve the career related program offered by International Baccalaureate (IBO) in Science subjects for issuance of Equivalence Certificate of HSSC (Pre-Medical/Pre-Engineering Group) of Pakistan. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email equivalence@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
The Government of Pakistan has authorized IBCC to attest certificates / diplomas at Secondary and Higher Secondary / Intermediate levels, awarded by all Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education and Boards of Technical Education in Pakistan and other such Boards at Secondary and Higher Secondary levels. Islamabad Head Office Deputy Director (Attestation & Academics), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, Plot No. 25,Street 38, G10/4, Near Federal Govt. Employees Housing Authority (FGEHA) Islamabad. Phone; (051) 9106631 Fax: Karachi Regional Office Director (Equivalence & Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, Regional Office at Plot No. ST-2, National Stadium Road, Opposite Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi. Ph:-021-99230583 Email: – karachi@ibcc.edu.pk Lahore Regional Office Deputy Director (Equivalence and Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, At Queen Plaza Durand Road, Lahore. Phone; (042) 36293013 Fax; (042) 36293013 Peshawar Regional Office Assistant Director(Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, At Abdara Road Near Shelton House, University Town, Peshawar. Phone; (091) 9216088 Fax; (091) 9216088 Quetta Regional Office Office Incharge (Equivalence and Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, Akhtar Plaza Spiny Road Near RBC (Regional Blood Centre) Quetta. Phone; (081) 2873633 Fax; (081)2826716 Bahawalpur Regional Office Office Incharge (Equivalence and Attestation), Inter Boards Coordination Commission, D-5/5, Aziz Bhatti Road, Model Town-A, Bahawalpur, Punjab. Ph: – 062-9255601 Fax: – For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email attestation@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
IBCC verifies the equivalence certificates issued by Inter Boards Coordination Commission. For this purpose, Universities, Professional Colleges and Organizations where such certificate holders take admission or job respectively, their documents can get verified through IBCC. IBCC does not verify the documents to third party where the purpose of verification is unknown, therefore, the organization who wants to verify the credentials/documents should clearly mention the purpose. The request for verification should be sent on official letter head of the department. IBCC will verify the documents on submission of prescribed fee of Rs: 600/- per certificate and Rs. 300/- on account of courier charges. Online Fee challan form is available on IBCC’s website. For Further queries or information regarding equivalence,please contact on following email eqverify@ibcc.edu.pk Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Phone: (051) 9106631 (051)111114222 (051) 8735969 Fax: (051) 9106361
Please wait... Create account using your Email Address/CNIC No. Remember your password for future login. Keep your Profile updated with current personal, qualification and experience information. Find most relevant jobs published on the Portal according to your qualification and experience. Apply on the latest jobs published on the Portal relevant to your qualification and experience.
To get admission in ist Applicants can appear in any one of the below mentioned tests and can use the higher score to apply for admission in IST. Please note that an applicant must have minimum 33% obtained marks in entry test to apply for admission in IST: NAT which is conducted by NTS in every month. HAT which is conducted by ETC-HEC.
The Institute of Space Technology (also known as IST) is a public university located in Islamabad, Pakistan.
IST offers merit scholarships to three students (excluding sponsored students) in each discipline as per the existing policy.
To apply in IST the merit required is For FSc/ DAE Students:
Matric/ Equivalent is 20%
FSc Part-1 or DAE (03 years aggregate marks) is 40%
Entry Test is 40%
IST accept NAT/ HAT/ SAT-II score which is conducted by NTS/ HEC/ College board.
To pay IST fee Candidates fulfilling the admissions requirements and willing to join IST are required to deposit the fee in any online branch of HBL within due date mentioned on challan forms.
In 2024 Institute of Space Technology ranked 57th in Pakistan, 5836th in the global 2024 rating, and scored in the TOP 50% across 16 research topics.
IST is managing 03 x hostels for boys and 1 x hostel for girls. Students are expected to bring decent colour linen and their amenities with them at the time of joining. Boarding facility will only be given depending on availability of rooms.
The test which is required to get admission in IST is that it is mandatory for MS/ PhD applicants to pass the GAT/ GRE/ HAT in the relevant field of study with required marks/ score to apply for admission in IST. However, provisional admission without GAT/ GRE/ HAT may be granted only for first semester subject to availability of seats.


The Department of Applied Mathematics & Statistics at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) is led by Professor Muhammad Nawaz, who holds a Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from QAU, Islamabad, Pakistan, specializing in Computational Fluid Dynamics. Professor Asad Ali, with a Ph.D. in Statistics from The University of Auckland, New Zealand, specializes in Bayesian Inference, MCMC Methods, Gravitational Radiation, Bayesian Spectrum Analysis, and Parallel Computing. Professor Salman Ahmad, with a Ph.D. in General & Fundamental Mechanics from Beijing Institute of Technology, China, specializes in Nonlinear Dynamics and Fluid Mechanics.

The department also includes Associate Professors Maryiam Javed, Muhammad Aqeel, Rahila Naz, and Waqas Ashraf. Dr. Javed and Dr. Naz both hold Ph.Ds in Applied Mathematics from QAU, Islamabad, specializing in Fluid Mechanics. Dr. Aqeel holds a Ph.D. in General & Fundamental Mechanics from Beijing Institute of Technology, China, specializing in Nonlinear Dynamics and Fluid Mechanics. Dr. Ashraf holds a Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from CIIT, Islamabad, Pakistan, specializing in Computational Mathematics.

Assistant Professors in the department include Ayesha Rafiq, Erum Zahid, Khawar Mehmood, Sadia Saeed, Salma Riaz, and Umair Ali. Dr. Rafiq holds a Ph.D. in Mathematics from Quaid E Azam University, Islamabad, specializing in Group theory and generalizations. Dr. Zahid holds a Ph.D. in Statistics from Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, specializing in Survey Sampling and Spatial Statistics. Dr. Mehmood holds a Ph.D. in Algebra from Abdus Salam School of Mathematical Sciences, G.C. University, Lahore, Pakistan, specializing in Singularity Theory, Computer Algebra, and Commutative Algebra. Dr. Saeed holds a Ph.D. in Computational Mathematics from COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI), Islamabad, specializing in Numerical Methods, Numerical Simulations, and Computational Fluid Dynamics. Dr. Riaz holds a Ph.D. in Statistics from Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad, specializing in Bayesian Control Chart. Dr. Ali holds a Ph.D. in Numerical Analysis from the University of Science Malaysia (USM), Malaysia, specializing in Fractional PDEs, Variable-order fractional PDEs, and Theoretical Analysis.

The department's lecturers include Javeria Ayub, who holds a Ph.D. in Mathematics from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, specializing in Nonlinear Dynamics and Control Theory; Amir Rahim, with an MS in Mathematics from NUST, Islamabad, specializing in Differential Equations; and Zaheer Ahmed, with an MPhil in Statistics from QAU, Islamabad, specializing in Statistics.
Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision Lab (iVision) is established under the department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. iVision hosts a friendly and research-intensive environment with strong workplace culture and brings together researchers across the areas of computer vision, machine learning, and signal processing. ​ iVision includes highly qualified and experienced faculty members and enthusiastic graduate students pursuing research on fundamental advances in computer vision and connecting AI with related areas including document analysis, computational forensics, hyperspectral remote sensing, robotics, medical image analysis, and neuroscience. iVision collaborates with public and private sector industries for various socio-economic projects. Thanks! We will get back to you soon. iVision Lab Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, Institute of Space Technology, 1, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad 44000.
iVision Lab has organized an exciting summer camp on AI & Robotics for kids. More than 80 kids participated in the camp. There were a total of 15 sessions in which hands-on robotics and AI were taught. iVision Lab is conducting a hands-on workshop on Advanced Deep Machine Learning using Python from 10 - 12 Jan 2022. For any queries related to the workshop, please contact . iVision Lab members participated in the 4th PPRS Student Symposium at SEECS, NUST on 9th Dec 2021. iVision Lab is organizing an exciting summer camp on Artificial Intelligence for kids. Click on "View More" to see details and register before 25th June 2021. For any queries related to the summer camp, please contact Mr. Muhammad Asad (). iVision Lab is conducting a hands-on workshop on Advanced Deep Machine Learning on 15 -17 March 2021. For any queries related to the workshop, please contact . The workshop on AI & Deep Machine Learning was successfully conducted at iVision Lab of the Institute of Space Technology on 15-16 Feb 2021. A total of 24 participants attended the workshop. International workshop on the theme of Role of Artificial Intelligence in Environment Monitoring was jointly organized by iVision@IST, NUST-SEECS & Bahria University with the support of Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society (PPRS). SSDA 2019, endorsed by IAPR TC-10 and TC-11, was organized in Islamabad, Pakistan in Aug 2019. The school was attended by over 100 participants from all over Pakistan and abroad, and 5 foreign speakers delivered lectures on AI, deep learning and document image analysis. Institute of Space Technology, 11th June 2019 Institute of Space Technology, 5th March 2019 The 1st Autumn School on Deep Learning was organized by the Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society (PPRS) featuring lectures and training by German and Pakistani specialists on the theme of real-time computer vision & UAVs. One day hands-on workshop at Institute of Space Technology on 3rd May 2018. One Day Workshop at Institute of Space Technology on 11th April 2018.
Content based Information Retrieval from Urdu Document Images using Word Spotting (2016-18) [1.81M PKR] Deep Learning Based Image Enhancement (2022) [0.1M PKR] Deep Object Concealment in Satellite Images (2020-21) [0.3M PKR] Target and anomaly detection in hyperspectral satellite images (2020-21) [1.0M PKR] Land cover classification in satellite images (2020-21) [1.0M PKR] Digital Terrain Mapping + Geo-locating using imaging system (2019-20) [0.27M PKR] Object Detection in under sampled and blurred images (2019-20) [0.10M PKR] Vision based Auto landing (2019-20) [0.10M PKR] Automatic Detection and Classification of Aeronautical Objects on Ground using Satellite Imagery (2018-19) [0.664M PKR] Implementation of Image Stabilization Algorithms for Revolving Imaging System (2016-17) [0.20M PKR] Funding for following projects [0.075M PKR each]: iRobo3, the iRover - with 3D Vision (2014-15) Design and Development of high resolution Imaging Subsystem for ICUBE-1 (2013-14) iRobo2 - With Object detection and tracking (2013-14) iRobo1 - A Robot that can see - With Gesture & Sign Detection (2012-13) 3D industrial parts inspection using computer vision (2019-20) [0.7M PKR] Smart City Supporting Applications (2019-20) [0.60M PKR] Analysing Steganography for practical security applications (2014-15) [0.16M PKR]
BiCoNeS lab at the Institute of Space Technology is looking for a GRA for the collection and processing of data from hand muscles for our ‘Brain-controlled Prosthetic Hand’ project. The GRA would be part of a diverse team from various departments at the Institute of Space Technology and would work in a very dynamic and progressive environment. The details about the requirements and salary of the GRA is as follows: Qualification: At least undergrad in Electrical Engineering or in any other relevant field. Required Technical Skills: Machine learning/AI. Candidates with strong communication and technical writing skills would be given preference. Salary: Rs. 40k per month. No other benefits would be provided. Brief details of the project along with short videos are available at: Interested candidates should email me at or send a message on Linkedin till October 21, 2021. Thank you. Do you want to work on Industrial AI Project? Do you want to learn the challenges of dealing with real-world data? Do you want to see how to strike balance between research and project development? ​ We at iVision lab, Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, are creating a remote sensing application for satellite images. We have multiple opportunities for12-weeks internship. Required Skills: Pursuing Bachelors or Masters degree in CS or CE major, or extensive CSE coursework. Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior or Graduate student In-depth expertise in deep learning (DL) and statistical machine learning (ML) Knowledge of common AI Frameworks such as Tensorflow, Pytorch, and Keras Passionate about building extraordinary products Creative, collaborative, & product focused Preferred Skills: Excellent programming skills in Python, CUDA or other GPGPU and knowledge of QGIS is a plus You will have also a chance to learn directly from AI experts and Coursera Deeplearning.ai mentor. The passionate candidates are encouraged to send their resume and motivation letter to and We have vacancies against two funded projects related to machine learning and computer vision that need to be filled urgently. Both the projects are of one-year duration and they will finish on 30 June 2021. The work will involve development for end-user as well as research paper writing. These will be carried out at iVISION Lab, Institute of Space Technology. ​ Positions and Skill requirement: ​ Each project has two positions. ​ 1. Expert engineer: BE/BS or MS in related fields, should have strong programming skills in Python or C++, should have good knowledge of signal and image processing and machine learning. Must have experience of machine learning tools such as tensor flow, Pytorch etc. Good writing skills are required and previous track record of publications will be a plus. Rs 40k-55k per month will be paid depending on skill set. ​ 2. MS/PhD student: Student should have already done related course work and may use this works as his/her thesis, will be paid 10-15k per month depending on skillset. ​ Projects and Application Procedure: ​ 1. First Project (Processing and Classification of Satellite Imagery using Machine Learning) In this project, automated software for processing and classification of satellite imagery using machine learning will be developed. This has applications in remote sensing where different types of ground features need to be identified for land cover classification. Interested applicants should send their CVs to Dr. Farrukh Bhatti ​ 2. Second Project (Anomaly detection using machine learning and air-borne hyper-spectral sensing) In this project, algorithms for anomaly detection will be developed using machine learning and while utilizing hyper-spectral data from airborne sensors. Anomaly detection in the region of interest has several applications in geologic and urban use cases. Interested applicants should send their CVs to Dr. Abdur Rahman Maud Application Deadline: 01 May 2019 (Closed) ​ Salary: Rs 40,000 monthly. ​ Skills requirement: Strong programming skills in Python or C++, good knowledge of signal/image processing and machine learning. ​ Interested applicants should send their CVs to ​ Position # 1 ​ Description: The research assistant will be required to work with a real-time stream of video data and perform machine learning tasks such as object detection and classification. Duration: Six months (extendable depending on performance) ​ Position # 2 ​ Description: The research assistant will be required to develop a computer vision-based system inspection of different parts. ​ Duration: Six months
Dr Khurram is the founder and director of iVision Lab. He is working as Professor and heading the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. He obtained his PhD in Computer Vision from Paris Descartes University, France. He is also one of the founding members of Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society affiliated with IAPR. In addition, he is the Project Manager of iCube, small satellite CubeSat program and Editor of Journal of Space Technology, an HEC recognized annual peer-reviewed journal. ​ Research Interests: Computer Vision, Hyperspectral Image Analysis, Document Analysis, Machine Learning, Satellite Imaging Payload Design Tayyaba is a lecturer in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. She received her Master's degree in Data Science from FAST-NUCES . She has done research work on medical image processing Research Interests: NLP , Medical Image Processing Deep Learning . ​ Dr Sajid is working as Associate Professor in the Geospatial Research and Education Lab (GREL), Space Science department at the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. He received his PhD in Photogrammetry from Vienna University of Technology, Austria. Research Interests: Photogrammetry, Machine Learning, Remote Sensing and Satellite Image Analysis Dr Benish is working as Assistant Professor in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. She received her PhD in Software Engineering from National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad. Research Interests: Image matting, Segmentation Dr Komal is working as Assistant Professor in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. She received her PhD in Software Engineering from National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad. Research Interests: Feature extraction, Information retreival Dr Syed Ali Irteza is working as Assistant Professor in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. He received his PhD in Signal Processing from Hanyang University, South Korea. Research Interests: Compressive Sensing, Deep Learning Dr Madiha is working as Assistant Professor in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. She received her PhD in Computer engineering from Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology (GIK). Research Interests: Evolutionary Computing, Data Analysis and Deep learning Jaleed is an adjunct researcher at iVision Lab, Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. He is currently pursuing a PhD in Artificial Intelligence at the Data Science Institute, University of Galway, Ireland. He has a Master's degree in Signal and Image Processing from Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad and a Bachelor's degree in Computer Engineering from UET Peshawar. He is also a core member of Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society, an official IAPR society in Pakistan. ​ Research Interests: Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Hyperspectral Image Analysis, Event Processing. Asad is an adjunct researcher at iVision Lab, Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. He is currently pursuing a PhD in Artificial Intelligence at the Data Science Institute,University of Galway, Ireland. He has a Master's degree in Computer System Engineering from GIK Institute and a Bachelor's degree System Engineering from UET Peshawar. He is also a core member of Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society, an official IAPR society in Pakistan. ​ Research Interests: Data Science , Machine learning and Deep Learning, Ammara is a lecturer in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. She received her Master's degree in Data Science from NED University of Engineering and Technology and Bachelor's degree in CIS(Computer and information systems)from the same University.She has done research work on Urdu OCR and Context aware recommendation systems. ​ Research Intrest: Machine Learning ,NLP,Data Analytics ,Deep learning ​ ​ Tufail is a lecturer in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. He receives Masters degree in Computer Science from NUST and BS(Software Engineering) from COMSATS in 2017. ​ Research Intrest: Computer Vision,Deep learning ​ ​ Reeda is a lecturer in the Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. She got her bachelor's Degree in Computer Science from COMSATS university and Masters from GIKI in 2021. ​ Research Interest: Artificial Intelligence in medicine,Deep learning ​ ​ Manager National Space Company ​ Research Interests: Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence Professor School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, NUST, Islamabad. Director, TUKL-NUST R&D Lab and President, Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society. Research Interests: Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence, Document Image Analysis Researcher & AssistantProfessor Georgia Institute of Technology,The Chinese University of Hong Kong. Research Interests: Computational Neuroscience Signal Processing ,Medical Image Analysis, Neuroscience, Machine Learning CEO and Founder NewVative Pvt Ltd Director of Wireless and Signal Processing Research Lab (WiSP) Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence, Signal Processing, Internet of Things, Cognitive and Software-Defined Radios, 5G Networks Professor Department of Computer Science, Bahria University, Islamabad. Board Member, Pakistani Pattern Recognition Society Research Interests: Image Analysis, Pattern Recognition, Computer Vision Assistant Professor Wageningen University & Research, Netherlands Research Interests: Agricultural Data Analysis& Processing, Machine Learning, HSI Vice President AlfAin Technologies PVT, Research Interests: Speech and Image Processing, Machine Learning, Radar / Array Signal Processing, Sparse Signal Processing Associate Professor Australian National University, Australia. Research Interests: Visual Navigation and intelligent transportation (Visual Odometry/SLAM), Convex optimization/Global optimization and Multi-modality data fusion Associate Professor School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, NUST, Islamabad. Research Interests: Medical Imaging, Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition Chief Analytic officer Sybrid Research Interests: Computer Vision, HDR Imaging, Biomedical Imaging, Multi-projector Displays Associate Professor Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, King Abdulaziz University, Saudi Arabia. Research Interests: Computer Vision, Machine Learning, Real Time Image Processing Maria Siddiqi, Ph.D. Student (Deep fakes analysis) Maria Nazir, Ph.D. Student (Brain tumor detection and classification) Ammad Ul Islam, Ph.D. Student (Writer identification for document forensic analysis) Rida Nasir, Ph.D. Student (Hyperspectral document image analysis) Ifra Amir, MS Student (Runway detection in aerial images and Vision-based auto-landing of 6 DoF aerial robots) Aneeqah Azmat, MS Student (Landcover classification in satellite images) Muhammad Talha, MS Student (Landcover classification in satellite images) Dr. Haris Ahmad Khan (Assistant Professor at Wageningen University & Research, Netherlands | PhD from NTNU, Norway) Dr. Asad Abbas (Data Analyst at Austal, Australia | PhD from University of Newcastle, Australia) Dr. Rizwan Qureshi (Assistant Professor at FAST National University | PhD from City University of Hong Kong)​ Adeel Yousaf (PhD Student in UCF, USA) Sajid Ullah (PhD Student at Masaryk University, Czech Republic) Nizwa Javed (PhD Student at York University, Canada) Mughees Ahmad (PhD Student at University of Windsor, Canada) Muhammad Adeel Hafeez (Research Associate at Istanbul Medipol University, Turkey) Basim Azam (PhD Student at Centre for Intelligent Systems, CQ University, Australia) Haris bin Nazar (Assistant Engineer at National Center of Physics, Islamabad) Kashif Iqbal (Assistant Manager at SUPARCO, Islamabad) Muhammad Arshad (Manager at ORIC, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad) Muhammad Junaid Khan (Lecturer at National University of Sciences and Technology, Rawalpindi) Zoha Qamar (Assistant Engineer, KRL) Muhammad Imran (University Lecturer) M. Sabih ul Qamar (Manager, NESCOM) Noman Raza (Assistant Manager, NECOP) Sara Shaikh (Data Analyst, Ericsson) Hamza Zafar (Freelancer) Khizer Ali (Research Associate AI Center, Bahria University) Faryal Batool (Design Engineer, NaqCoDE Technologies) Wajeeha Haider (CAD Engineer, NaqCoDE Technologies) Farhan Humayun (Manager ,SUPARCO) Dr. Maria Nazir (Researcher, Qatar) Hasan Malik (BS Computer Science | GIK Institute, Swabi) Fareeha (BS Computer Science | CUST, Islamabad) Farees Ashar Jalees (BS Quantum Mechanics | Jacobs University Bremen, Germany) Wafa Fatima (MS Electrical Engineering | IST, Pakistan) Hassan Ejaz (BS Electrical Engineering | Bilkent University, Turkey) Ali Nasir (BS Electrical Engineering | NUST, Pakistan) Mutahir Nisar Awan (BS Mechatronics Engineering | Air University, Pakistan)​
29th Jan- 2nd Feb,2024 iVision Lab of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science department succesfully conducted the hands-on workshop on 'AI based Document Image Analysis' from 29th January to 2nd February 2024.
Jan 15, 2024 Dr. Rizwan Ali, Assistant Professor, Sejong University, Korea visited IST on Jan 15, 2024. He met with faculty and students for possible collaboration in the field of Image Processing and AI.
Ms. Sana Mustafa Successfully Defended her MS Thesis entitled " Decoding the Severity and Morality of Covid-19 through Clinical Data-An Artificial Intelligence Approach". Under the supervision of Dr.Khurram khurshid.
Workshop on Lunar Remote Sensing was succesfully conducted by Dr Khurram Khurshid and Mr Farhan Humayun on 6th March,2024 .Participants from seven different countries attended the workshop. The workshop was sponsored by APSCO.
Accurate Removal of objects from a scene without their traces is a difficult task. Doing so with no background information is challenging. Existing methods using Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) do provide us with satisfactory solutions but have been observed to be inefficient when propagating information across distant spatial positions in images which results in blurred and distorted reconstruction in the missing areas. In the present study using Contextual attention-based approaches helps with the reconstruction of the background by using contextual loss to match the best matching texture for the patch. Our goal is to implement the best-suited technique to satellite images which perfectly conceals the desired data information to be concealed. Target detection in satellite images is a challenging problem due to the varying size, orientation and background of the target objects. In this project, we employ modern deep learning models including Region based Convolutional Neural Network and YOLO v3 object detector for detection and recognition of military targets in a scene. Military targets include aircrafts, armored vehicles and oil tanks. The deep learning based object detectors provides location and centroids of each target in satellite images and tracking results of moving targets in videos. The SAR images are pre-filtered in order to reduce the noise factor in the images to increase the recognition capabilities. Encouraging experimental results are obtained on benchmark datasets which show that deep learning provides robust and efficient solutions to learn representations from the massive satellite imagery. The problem with visualization of hyperspectral images on tri-stimulus displays arises from the fact that they contain hundreds of spectral bands while generally used display devices support only three bands/channels namely blue, green and red. Therefore, for visualization a hyperspectral image has to be reduced to three bands. The main challenge while performing this band reduction is to retain and display the maximum information available in a hyper-spectral image. Human visual system focuses attention on certain regions in images called “salient regions”. Therefore to provide a comprehensive representation of hyper-spectral data on tri-stimulus displays we propose to use a weighted fusion method of saliency maps and hyper-spectral bands. The efficacy of the proposed algorithm has been demonstrated by tests on both urban and countryside images of AVIRIS and ROSIS sensors. Traffic regulations face enormous challenges due to rapid growth in the number of transportation vehicles. The detection of vehicle type is an important part of traffic surveillance as it helps in traffic monitoring as well as congestion handling. The growth in automobile industry has resulted in a wide variety of vehicles on the roads, including private use vehicles, public transport and vehicles for many other purposes. Traffic surveillance cameras capture videos from various angles, orientations in varying lighting and visibility conditions. Therefore, machine learning-based models trying to do vehicle classification need to be trained on a diverse dataset for robust performance. This research mainly focuses on the development and deployment of deep learning-based system to analyze vehicular traffic. The model uses vehicle‘s apparent features to detect, classify and count all the vehicles from live traffic feed. The multi-class (around 55 classes) model is able to classify vehicle make, model and year of manufacture. Citizen Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) has been adopted by FCC in USA for shared wireless broadband in 3550-3700 MHz band. It utilizes a Spectrum Access System (SAS) which is a cloud based highly automated database and controller that coordinates the frequency usage in the CBRS spectrum. This band is currently used by Naval Radars and satellite ground stations. For efficient utilization of this band by MNOs, we propose a CNN-based classifier that can distinguish between radar and LTE signals. Actual signals are utilized through USRPs for analyzing different interfering scenarios. Accurate and timely measurement of Leaf Water Content (LWC) is crucial for vegetation health and productivity estimation, planning irrigation, forecasting drought and predicting woodland fire. This study is mainly focused on retrieval of LWC from Mid and Thermal Infrared (2.50 -14.0 μm) range of the electromagnetic spectrum using regression. The automatic representation learning property of deep neural networks is utilized for selection of spectral wavebands with high predictive performance resulting in high adjusted-R2 and low RMSE. The experiments show a high accuracy with adjusted-R2 of 0.93 and RMSE equal to 3.1%. The study also demonstrated that MIR is more sensitive to the variation in LWC as compared to TIR and the combined use of both spectra enhances the predictive performance in retrieval of LWC. The findings of this study will allow the future space missions to position wavebands at sensitive regions for characterizing vegetation stresses. Ink analysis allows for determination of ink age and forgery and identification of pen or writer in document images. The spectral information of inks in hyperspectral document images provides valuable information about the underlying material and thus helps in discrimination of inks based on their unique spectral signatures even if they have the same color. In this project, the spectral responses of ink pixels are extracted from a hyperspectral document image, reshaped to a CNN-friendly image format and fed to the CNN for classification. The proposed method effectively identifies different ink types present in unbalanced proportions in a hyperspectral document image for forgery detection and achieves a very high accuracy on the UWA Writing Ink Hyperspectral Images (WIHSI) database. This research opens a new window for research on automated forgery detection in hyperspectral document images using deep learning. Nasteleeq text recognition is one of the most challenging problem in Urdu document analysis and recognition. The cursive nature of Urdu text makes the segmentation of characters very difficult, however, segmentation free ligature based techniques are more promising. This study focuses on classification and recognition of Urdu ligatures using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). The proposed system has been trained on our self-generated dataset comprising 18,000 Urdu Ligatures divided into 98 classes. CNN achieved very high classification rates as compared to the traditional methods. The facial appearance of a person changes considerably over time which induces significant intra-class variations, which makes face recognition a very challenging task. Most of the face recognition studies that have addressed the ageing problem in the past have employed complex models and handcrafted features with strong parametric assumptions. In this work, we propose a novel deep learning framework that extracts age-invariant and generalized features from facial images of the subjects. The proposed model trained on facial images from a minor part (20-30%) of lifespan of subjects correctly identifies them throughout their lifespan. A variety of pre-trained Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are compared in terms of accuracy, time complexity and computational complexity to select the most suitable network for Age Invariant Face Recognition (AIFR). Extensive experimental results are carried out on the popular and challenging Face and Gesture Recognition Network (FG-NET) Ageing Dataset. The proposed method achieves promising results and outperforms the state-of-the-art AIFR models by achieving an accuracy of 99%, which proves the effectiveness of deep learning in facial ageing research. Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women around the globe. Timely diagnosis of cancer is mandatory for its successful treatment. For this purpose, machine learning is used to classify images into four categories: normal, benign, in situ carcinoma, and invasive carcinoma. The ICIAR 2018 grand challenge on BreAst Cancer Histology (BACH) dataset is used in this project. A “patch-wise” network acts as an auto-encoder that extracts the most salient features of image patches while the second “image-wise” network performs classification of the whole image. Pretrained convolutional neural networks including AlexNet, GoogleNet, and ResNet are fine-tuned for image classification at multiple cellular and nuclei configurations. Promising classification results have been observed in which ResNet reported the highest accuracy of 85%. This work is being extended to increase its efficiency and reduce the human dependency. The design can also be used for automation of other medical image analysis methods. Graphomotor impressions are a product of complex cognitive, perceptual and motor skills and are widely used as psychometric tools for the diagnosis of a variety of neuropsychological disorders. Apparent deformations in these responses are quantified as errors and are used are indicators of various conditions. Contrary to conventional assessment methods where manual analysis of impressions is carried out by trained clinicians, an automated scoring system is marked by several challenges. Prior to analysis, such computerized systems need to extract and recognize individual shapes drawn by subjects on a sheet of paper as an important pre-processing step. The aim of this study is to employ deep learning for automated and accurate recognition of visual structures of interest produced by subjects. Experiments on figures of Bender Gestalt Test (BGT), a screening test for visuo-spatial and visuo-constructive disorders, produced by 120 subjects, demonstrate that deep feature representation brings significant improvements over classical approaches. The study is being extended to discriminate coherent visual structures between produced figures and expected prototypes.
Awais , Wajeeha Haider, Asad, Raza, "Acoustic Based Drone Detection Via Machine Learning", International Conference on IT and Industrial Technologies (ICIT), 2022 Maria Nazir, Muhammad Junaid Ali, Zahid Tufail, Ahmad Raza Shahid, Basit Raza, Sadia Shakil, Khurram Khurshid, Multi-Task Learning Architecture for Brain Tumor Detection & Segmentation in MRI Images, Journal of Electronic Imaging, 31(5): 051606, 2022 Basim Azam, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Farrukh Aziz Bhatti, Abdur Rahman Maud, Syed Fawad Hussain, Ali Javed Hashmi, Khurram Khurshid, Aircraft Detection in Satellite Imagery using Deep Learning-Based Object Detectors, Microprocessors and Microsystems, 94(1): 104630, 2022 Sadia Tariq, Asif Iftikhar, Puruesh Chaudhary, Khurram Khurshid, Examining some serious challenges and possibility of AI emulating human emotions, consciousness, understanding and ‘self’, Neurophilosophy, 2022 Sadia Tariq, Asif Iftikhar, Puruesh Chaudhary, Khurram Khurshid, Is the ‘Technological Singularity Scenario’ Possible: Can AI Parallel and Surpass All Human Mental Capabilities?, World Futures, 78, 10.1080/02604027.2022.2050879, 2022 Ammad ul Islam, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Muhammad Asad, Haris Ahmad Khan, Khurram Khurshid, iVision HHID: Handwritten Hyperspectral Images Dataset for Benchmarking Hyperspectral Imaging-based Document Forensic Analysis, Data in Brief, 10.1016/j.dib.2022.107964, 2022 Sadia Tariq, Asif Iftikhar, Puruesh Chaudhary, Khurram Khurshid, Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Harmony, 8th International Conference on Human Interaction and Emerging Technologies (IHIET 2022), August 2022, France. Raza Shah, Noman, Abdur Rahman M. Maud, Farrukh Aziz Bhatti, Muhammad Khizer Ali, Khurram Khurshid, Moazam Maqsood, and Muhammad Amin. "Hyperspectral anomaly detection: a performance comparison of existing techniques." International Journal of Digital Earth 15, no. 1 (2022): 2078-2125. Rasheed, Osama, Adam Ishaq, Muhammad Asad, and Tufail Sajjad Shah Hashmi. "Multiplatform Surveillance System for Weapon Detection using YOLOv5." In 2022 17th International Conference on Emerging Technologies (ICET), pp. 37-42. IEEE, 2022. ​ Muhammad Asad, Muhammad Nadeem and Aqsa Zouq, “An In-data Network Intrusion Detection by Employing Machine Learning Algorithms”, in International Conference on Aerospace Science & Engineering (ICASE), 2021. Muhammad Asad, Zahid Halim, Muhammad Waqas, Shanshan Tu , "An In-ad contents-based viewability prediction framework using Artificial Intelligence for Web Ads", Artificial Intelligence Review, 2021. Maria Nazir, Sadia Shakil, Khurram Khurshid, Role of Deep Learning in Brain Tumor Detection and Classification (2015 to 2020): A Review, Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics 101940, 10.1016/j.compmedimag.2021.101940, 2021 Farrukh A. Bhatti, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Ahmed Selim, Francisco Paisana, "Shared Spectrum Monitoring using Deep Learning", IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and Networking, 2021. M. Junaid Khan, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Adil Masood Siddiqui, Khurram Khurshid, "An automated and efficient convolutional architecture for disguise-invariant face recognition using noise-based data augmentation and deep transfer learning", Visual Computer, 2021. Muhammad Asad, Azhar Mahmood, Muhammad Usman, "A machine learning-based framework for Predicting Treatment Failure in tuberculosis: A case study of six countries", Tuberculosis, 2020 Syed Fawad Hussain, Zaheer Babar, Akhtar Khalil, Rashad M Jillani, Muhammad Hanif, Khurram Khurshid, A Fast Non-redundant Feature Selection Technique for Text Data, IEEE Access, 2020 Adeel Yousaf, Junaid Khan, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Adil Masood Siddiqui, Khurram Khurshid, "A Robust and Efficient Convolutional Deep Learning Framework for Age Invariant Face Recognition", Expert Systems, 37(3):e12503, 2020. Muhammad Shahzaib, Sadia Shakil, Sajid Ghuffar, Moazam Maqsood, Farrukh A. Bhatti, "Classification of forearm EMG signals for 10 motions using optimum feature-channel combinations", Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering, 2020. Hafiz Mughees Ahmad, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Adeel Yousaf, Sajid Ghuffar, Khurram Khurshid, “Deep Learning: A breakthrough in Medical Imaging”, Current Medical Imaging 15(1):1-14, 2020. Owen King, Atanu Bhattacharya, Sajid Ghuffar, Alex Tait, Sam Guilford, Aurora C. Elmore, Tobias Bolch, "Six Decades of Glacier Mass Changes around Mt. Everest Are Revealed by Historical and Contemporary Images", One Earth 3(5): 608-620, 2020. Nida Qayyum, Sajid Ghuffar, Hafiz Mughees Ahmad, Adeel Yousaf, Imran Shahid. "Glacial lakes mapping using multi satellite PlanetScope imagery and deep learning", ISPRS International Journal of Geo-Information 9(10):560, 2020. Maria Saeed, Sajid Ghuffar, "Semantic stereo using semi-global matching and convolutional neural networks", In Image and Signal Processing for Remote Sensing XXVI, vol. 11533, p. 115331G. International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2020. Ammad ul Islam, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, Faisal Shafait, "Hyperspectral Image Analysis for Writer Identification using Deep Learning", International Conference on Digital Image Computing: Techniques and Applications (DICTA), Dec. 2019, Perth, Australia Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, Faisal Shafait, “A Spatio-Spectral Hybrid Convolutional Architecture for Hyperspectral Document Authentication”, 15th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition, Sept. 2019, Sydney, Australia. Israr Uddin, Nizwa Javed, Imran Siddiqi, Shehzad Khalid, Khurram Khurshid, "Recognition of Printed Urdu Ligatures using Convolutional Neural Networks", Journal of Electronic Imaging, 2019 Zahid Tufail, Khawar Khurshid, Ahmad Salman, Khurram Khurshid, "Optimization of Transmission Map for Improved Image Defogging", IET Image Processing, 10.1049/iet-ipr.2018.6485, 2019 Adeel Yousaf, Muhammad Shehzad Hanif, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Mehboob Iqbal, Khurram Khurshid, "A Robust and Computationally Efficient Online Image Stabilization Framework based on Adaptive Dual Motion Vector Integration", IET Computer Vision, 2019 Rizwan Qureshi, Muhammad Uzair, Khurram Khurshid, Hong Yan, "Hyperspectral Document Image Processing: Applications, Challenges and Future Prospects", Pattern Recognition, 90(1): 12-22, 2019. Muhammad Shahid Saleem, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, Muhammad Shehzad Hanif, "Crowd density estimation in still images using multiple local features and boosting regression ensemble," Neural Computing and Applications, 10.1007/s00521-019-04021-2, 2019. Maheen Zulfiqar, Fatima Syed, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, "Deep Face Recognition for Biometric Authentication", IEEE International Conference on Electrical, Communication, and Computer Engineering, Swat, Pakistan, 2019. Mehmood ul Hassan, Saleem Ullah, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, "Comparative Analysis of SVM, ANN and CNN for Classifying Vegetation Specie using Hyperspectral Thermal Infrared Data", HyperMLA in ISPRS GeoSpatial Week, June 2019, The Netherlands. Haroon Ibrahim, Khurram Khurshid, "Performance Evaluation of Stream Ciphers for Efficient and Quick Security of Satellite Images", 2nd International Conference on Signal Processing and Information Communications, January 2019, Thailand. Faryal Amber, Adeel Yousaf, Muhammad Imran, Khurram Khurshid, "P300 Based Deception Detection using Convolutional Neural Network", 2nd IEEE International Conference on Communication, Computing and Digital Systems (C-CODE), March 2019 Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Naina Said, Aqsa Khan, Naila Rehman, Khurram Khurshid, "Automated Latin Text Detection in Document Images and Natural Scene Images based on Connected Component Analysis", 2nd IEEE International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and Engineering Technologies, January 2019. Hafiz Mughees Ahmad, Sajid Ghaffar, Khurram Khurshid, "Classification of Breast Cancer Histology Images using Transfer Learning", 16th IEEE International Bhurban Conference on Applied Sciences and Technology, January 2019. Adeel Yousaf, Muhammad Junaid Khan, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Nizwa Javed, Haroon Ibrahim, Khurram Khurshid, Khawar Khurshid, "Size Invariant Handwritten Character Recognition using Single Layer Feedforward Backpropagation Neural Networks", 2nd IEEE International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and Engineering Technologies, January 2019. F. Masood, I. Qazi, Khurram Khurshid, "Saliency Based Visualization of Hyperspectral Satellite Images using Hierarchical Fusion", Journal of Applied Remote Sensing, 12(4):046011, 2018. Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Adeel Yousaf, A. Abbas, Khurram Khurshid, "Deep Learning for Automated Forgery Detection in Hyperspectral Document Images", Journal of Electronic Imaging, 27(5): 053001, 2018. Z. Tufail, K. Khurshid, A. Salman, I. F. Nizamani, Khurram Khurshid, "Byeungwoo Jeon, Improved Dark Channel Prior for Image Defogging using RGB and YCbCr Color Space", IEEE Access, 6(1):32576-32587, 2018. Muhammad Jaleed Khan, H. S. Khan, Adeel Yousaf, Khurram Khurshid, A. Abbas, "Modern Trends in Hyperspectral Image Analysis: A Review", IEEE Access, 6(1):14118-14119, 2018. L. Said, Khurram Khurshid, A. Aman, "Using Co-occurrence and Granulometry Features for Content Based Image Retrieval", ICST Transactions on Scalable Information Systems, 4(16): e13, 2018. M. Arshad, S. Ullah, Khurram Khurshid, A. Ali, "Estimation of Leaf Water Content from Mid and Thermal Infrared spectra by coupling Genetic Algorithm and Partial Least Squares Regression", Journal of Applied Remote Sensing, 12(2): 022203 1-10, 2018 S. Jamal, Khurram Khurshid, Tensors for Improving Compressed Sensing Reconstruction, Pakistan Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 22(1):1-9, 2018. M. B. Ahmad, S. Amin, M. A. Raja, Khurram Khurshid, "i-Riter: Machine Learning based novel Eye Tracking and Calibration", 33rd IEEE International Instrumentation & Measurement Conference, May 2018, USA. Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Adeel Yousaf, Khurram Khurshid, A. Abbas, F. Shafait, "Automated Forgery Detection in Multispectral Document Images using Fuzzy Clustering", 13th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis Systems, April 2018, Austria. M. Siddiqui, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, "Feature Extraction for Cursive Language Document Images using Discrete Cosine Transform, Discrete Wavelet Transform and Gabor Filter", 2nd Mediterranean Conference on Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence, March 2018, Morocco. M. Z. Ijaz, Khurram Khurshid, Z. Abbas, M. A. Aizaz, A. Nawaz, "A Novel Image Encoding and Communication Technique of B/W Images for IOT, Robotics and Drones using (15, 11) Reed Solomon Scheme", International Conference on Advances in Science and Engineering Technology, Feb 2018, UAE. S. Charan, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, "Breast Cancer Detection in Mammograms using Convolutional Neural Network", IEEE International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and Engineering Technologies, March 2018. F. Masood, Khurram Khurshid, "Salient Features Extraction in Hyperspectral Images by Hierarchical Fusion", IEEE International Conference on Mathematics and Engineering Technologies, March 2018. Z. Qamar, Khurram Khurshid, "Machine Learning based Forecasting for Analyzing Correlation between Social Attention and Study Abroad Trend for Pakistani Students", IEEE International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and Engineering Technologies, March 2018. M. A. Hafeez, S. Shakil, S. Jangsher, "Stress effects on Exam Performance using EEG", 14th IEEE International Conference on Emerging Technologies, 2018, pp. 1-4. M. S. Hanif, S. Ahmad, Khurram Khurshid, "On the Improvement of Foreground-Background Model based Object Tracker", IET Computer Vision, 11(6): 488-496, 2017. J.C.W. Billings, A. M., Sadia Shakil et al, "Instantaneous brain dynamics mapped to a continuous state space", NeuroImage, 162(1): 344-352, 2017. Sadia Shakil, J. C. Billings, S. D. Keilholz, C. Lee, "Parametric Dependencies of Sliding Window Correlation", IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 65(2): 254-263, 2018. H. Arshad, Khurram Khurshid, M. H. Yousaf, "Role of Feature Position in Recognition of Human Vehicle Interaction", Journal of Engineering Research, 5(2): 159-169, 2017. L. Said, Khurram Khurshid, "An Efficient Content Based Image Retrieval System using Optimal Orientations of Gabor Wavelet, GUJR, 33(2):26-34, 2017. K. Iqbal, Khurram Khurshid, "Automatic Signature Extraction from Document Images using Hyperspectral Unmixing", Proceedings of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences, 54(3): 257-265, 2017. Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Adeel Yousaf, N. Javed, S. Nadeem, Khurram Khurshid, "Automatic Target Detection in Satellite Images using Deep Learning, Journal of Space Technology", 7(1): 44-49, 2017. A. Abbas, Khurram Khurshid, F. Shafait, "Towards Automated Ink Mismatch Detection in Hyperspectral Document Images", 14th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Retrieval, November 2017, Japan. H. Nazar, M. Moetesum, S. Ehsan, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, N. Vincent, K. McDonald-Maier, "Classification of Graphomotor Impressions using Convolutional Neural Networks: An Application to Automated Neuro-psychological Screening Tests", 14th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Retrieval (ICDAR), November 2017, Japan. L. Said, Khurram Khurshid, "Using Co-occurrence and Granulometry Features for Content Based Image Retrieval, 2nd EAI International Conference on Future Intelligent Vehicular Technologies (Future5V)", October 2017. M. Arshad, S. Ullah, Khurram Khurshid, A. Ali, "Estimation of Leaf Water Contents from mid- and thermal infra red spectra by coupling Genetic Algorithm and Partial Least Squares Regression", Proc. SPIE 10421, Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems and Hydrology XIX, September 2017, Poland. U. Shahzad, Khurram Khurshid, "Oriental-script Text Detection and Extraction in Videos", International Workshop on Arabic Script Analysis and Recognition, April 2017, France. G. Abbas, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, R. Qureshi, Khurram Khurshid, "Scope of Video Magnification in Human Pulse Rate Estimation", 2017 International Conference on Machine Vision and Information Technology, February 2017, Singapore. N. Javed, S. Shabbir, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, "Classification of Urdu Ligatures Using Convolutional Neural Networks – A Novel Approach", 15th International Conference on Frontiers of Information Technology (FIT), December 2017. Adeel Yousaf, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, M. Imran, Khurram Khurshid, "Benchmark Dataset for Offline Handwritten Character Recognition, IEEE International Conference on Emerging Technologies, December 2017. S. Shabbir, N. Javed, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, "A Comparative Study on Clustering Techniques for Urdu Ligatures in Nastaliq Font", IEEE International Conference on Emerging Technologies, December 2017. S. M. A. Bashir, G. Abbas, R. Mughal, R. Mahmood, Khurram Khurshid, "Design and Performance Evaluation of Low Cost, Medium Resolution Imaging Payload for Nanosatellites", 5th IEEE International Conference on Aerospace Science and Engineering, November 2017. Adeel Yousaf, Muhammad Jaleed Khan, Khurram Khurshid, M. S. Hanif, "Real Time Video Stabilization Methods in IR Domain for UAVs – A Review", 5th IEEE International Conference on Aerospace Science and Engineering, November 2017. I. A. Qureshi, S. Zubair, Khurram Khurshid, "Non negative Matrix Factorization, Sparse Coding and Dictionary Learning Techniques on fMRI images", IEEE Symposiym on Recent Advances in Electrical Engineering, October 2017. S. A. Haider, Khurram Khurshid, "An Implementable System for Detection and Recognition of Liscence Plates in Pakistan", International Conference on Innovations in Electrical Engineering and Computational Technologies, April 2017. R. Qureshi, S. A. R. Rizvi, S. H. A. Musavi, S. Khan, Khurram Khurshid, "Performance Analysis of Adaptive Algorithms for removal of Low Frenquency Noise from ECG Signal", International Conference on Innovations in Electrical Engineering and Computational Technologies (ICIEECT), April 2017. R. Qureshi, M. Uzair, Khurram Khurshid, "Multistage Adaptive filter for ECG Signal Processing", IEEE International Conference on Communication, Computing and Digital Systems, March 2017. W. Aslam, Khurram Khurshid, A. A. Khan, "Optimzed Image Scaling using DWT with different Interpolation Techniques", International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(6): 294-300, 2016. H. A. Khan, M. Salman, S. Hussain, Khurram Khurshid, "Automation of Optimized Gabor Filter Parameter Selection for Road Cracks Detection", International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(3): 269-275, 2016. T. Ashfaq, Khurram Khurshid, "Classification of Hand Gestures using Gabor Filter with Bayesian and Naïve Bayes Classifier, International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications", 7(3): 276-279, 2016. U. M. Babri, M. Tariq, Khurram Khurshid, "Feature Based Correspondence: A comparative study on Image Matching Algorithms", International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(3): 206-210, 2016. M. R. Hussain, A. Masood, H. A. Khan, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, "Language Independent Keyword Based Information Retrieval System of Handwritten Documents using SVM Classifier and Converting Words into Shapes", Pakistan Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 19(1): 63-76, 2016. S. Sattar, H. A. Khan, Khurram Khurshid, "Optimized Class-Separability in HyperSpectral Images, 36th IEEE International Geo-science And Remote Sensing Symposium" , July 2016, China. R. Hussain, A. Raza, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, C. Djeddi, "A comprehensive survey of handwritten document benchmarks: Structure, Usage and Evaluation", EURASIP Journal on Image and Video Processing, 2015(46): 1-24, 2015. Z. Abbas, Khurram Khurshid, "High Speed, Noise Resistant Data Transferring System for LEO Satellite Mission", International Journal of Computer Science and Communication System Engineering, 2(2): 238-245, 2015. Khurram Khurshid, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Word Spotting in Historical Printed Documents using Shape and Sequence Comparisons", Pattern Recognition, 45(7): 2598-2609, 2012. Khurram Khurshid, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Novel approach for word spotting using merge-split Edit distance, Lecture Notes in Computer Science", 5702(1): 213-220, 2009. A. R. Baig, I. A. Huqqani, Khurram Khurshid, "Enhancement of Latent Fingerprint Images with Segmentation Perspective", 11th International Conference on Signal-Image Technology and Internet-Based Systems, November 2015, Thailand. R. Hussain, H. A. Khan, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, A. Masood, "Keyword based Information Retrieval System for Urdu Document Images", 11th International Conference on Signal-Image Technology and Internet-Based Systems, November 2015, Thailand. H. A. Khan, M. M. Khan, Khurram Khurshid, J. Chanussot, "Saliency based Visualization of Hyperspectral Images", 35th IEEE International Geo-science And Remote Sensing Symposium, July 2015, Italy. Khurram Khurshid, R. Mahmood, Q. Islam, "A Survey of Camera Modules for CubeSats – Design of Imaging Payload of ICUBE-1", 6th International Conference on Recent Advances in Space Technologies, June 2013, Turkey. A. Abidi, A. Jamil, I. Siddiqi, K. Khurshid, "Word Spotting based Retrieval of Urdu Handwritten Documents", 13th International Conference on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition , Sept 2012, Italy. S. A. Hussain, A. Ahmed, I. Mahmood, Khurram Khurshid, "Hand gesture based user interface for computer using a camera and projector", IEEE International Conference on Signal and Image Processing Applications, November 2011, Malaysia H. Iftekhar, Khurram Khurshid, "Fusion of Gabor Filter and Morphological Operators for the Detection of Settlement Zones in Google Earth Satellite Images", IEEE International Conference on Signal and Image Processing Applications, Nov. 2011, Malaysia. A. Abidi, I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, "Towards Searchable Digital Urdu Libraries – A Word Spotting Based Retrieval Approach", 11th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Retrieval (ICDAR), 2011, China. I. Siddiqi, Khurram Khurshid, N. Vincent, "Feature Relevance Analysis for Writer Identification", 18th Document Recognition and Retrieval Conference (DRR), Jan 2011,USA. Khurram Khurshid, I. Siddiqi, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Information retrieval from historical document image base", International Conference of Knowledge Discovery and Information Retrieval, October 2010, Spain. Khurram Khurshid, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Novel approach for word spotting using merge-split Edit distance", International Conference of Computer Analysis of Images and Patterns, September 2009, Germany. Khurram Khurshid, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Fusion of Word Spotting and Spatial Information for Figure Caption Retrieval in Historical Document Images", 10th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Retrieval, July 2009, Spain. Khurram Khurshid, I. Siddiqi, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Comparison of Niblack inspired Binarization methods for ancient documents", 16th Document Recognition and Retrieval Conference, January 2009, USA. C. Faure, Khurram Khurshid, N. Vincent, "Détection des composantes implicitement associées dans les images de document", Extraction et Gestion des Connaissances, Jan 2009, France. Khurram Khurshid, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Recherche de mots dans des images de documents par appariement de caractères", Colloque International Francophone sur l'Ecrit et le Document, October 2008, France. Khurram Khurshid, C. Faure, N. Vincent, "Feature based word spotting in ancient printed documents", 8th Int'l workshop on Pattern Recognition in Information Systems, June 2008, Spain. Khurram Khurshid, N. Vincent, "Removal of unwanted Hand Gestures using Motion Analysis", 7th Int'l workshop on Pattern Recognition in Information Systems, June 2007, Portugal. I. Haqqani, Khurram Khurshid, "Comparative Study of Supervised Classification of Urban Area Hyperspectral Satellite Imagery, Journal of Space Technology, 4(1): 7-15, 2014. M. Sajid, K. Khurshid, "Satellite Image Restoration Using RLS Adaptive Filter and Enhancement by Image Processing Techniques", IEEE Symposiym on Recent Advances in Electrical Engineering, October 2015. A. R. Baig, A. R. Baig, Khurram Khurshid, "Fingerprint Enhancement over the past few years", 4th IEEE International Conference on Aerospace Science and Engineering, September 2015. W. Najeeb, Khurram Khurshid, "Implementation and Enhancement of Vehicle Tracking System", 4th IEEE International Conference on Aerospace Science and Engineering, September 2015. Khawar Khurshid, K. Berger, Khurram Khurshid and R. J. McGough, "Automated software for PET/CT image registration to avoid unnecessary invasive cardiac surgery", IEEE International Multitopic Conference, December 2006.
انسٹیٹیوٹ آف اسپیس ٹیکنالوجی کے رکن کور کمیٹی ڈاکٹر خرم خورشید نے بتایا ہے کہ آج چاند پر جانے والا پاکستانی سیٹلائٹ مشن چاند کے مدار پر 5 دن میں پہنچے گا۔ ’جیو نیوز‘ سے گفتگو کرتے ہوئے انہوں نے بتایا کہ چاند پر پاکستان کا پہلا سیٹلائٹ مشن ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ آج چین کی ہینان اسپیس لانچ سائٹ سے روانہ ہو گا۔ انسٹیٹیوٹ آف اسپیس ٹیکنالوجی کے رکنِ کور کمیٹی نے بتایا کہ 3 تا 6 ماہ چاند کے اطراف چکر لگائے گا۔ انہوں نے بتایا کہ سیٹلائٹ ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ کی مدد سے چاند کی سطح کی مختلف تصاویر لی جائیں گی۔ ڈاکٹر خرم خورشید نے مزید بتایا کہ پاکستان کے پاس تحقیق کے لیے اپنے سیٹلائٹ سے لی جانے والی چاند کی تصاویر ہوں گی۔ انہوں نے یہ بھی بتایا کہ ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ پاکستانی وقت کے مطابق 2 بج کر 18 منٹ پر روانہ ہو گا۔ واضح رہے کہ چاند پر آج پاکستان کا پہلا سیٹلائٹ مشن ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ بھیجنے کی تیاریاں مکمل کر لی گئی ہیں۔
Or register with email Join our subscribers list to get the latest news, updates and special offers directly in your inbox Pakistan is set to embark on a ground-breaking lunar mission, as the country's historic ICUBE-Q satellite prepares for launch on Friday. The satellite will be carried aboard China's Chang'E6 spacecraft, scheduled to depart from Hainan, China, at 1250 PST. According to the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the satellite ICUBE-Q has been designed and developed by IST in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University SJTU and Pakistan’s national space agency SUPARCO. ICUBE-Q orbiter carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. Following successful qualification and testing, ICUBE-Q has now been integrated with the Chang’e6 mission. Chang’e6 is the sixth in a series of China’s lunar exploration missions. The launch activity will be telecast live on the IST website and social media platforms. Chang’6 will touch down on the moon’s far side to collect samples from the surface and return to Earth for research. The mission holds significance for Pakistan as it will also take a Pakistan CubeSat Satellite iCube-Q, developed by IST. CubeSats are miniature satellites typically characterised by their small size and standardised design. They are constructed in a cubic shape, consisting of modular components that adhere to specific size constraints. These satellites often weigh no more than a few kilogrammes and are deployed in space for various purposes. The primary purpose of cubesats is to facilitate scientific research, technology development, and educational initiatives in space exploration. These satellites are utilised for a wide range of missions, including Earth observations, remote sensing, atmospheric research, communications, astronomy, and technology demonstration. Due to their compact size and relatively low cost compared to traditional satellites, CubeSats offer opportunities for universities, research institutions, and commercial entities to participate in space missions and gather valuable data for scientific advancement and innovation. They serve as platforms for testing new technologies and concepts, enabling access to space for a broader range of users and promoting collaboration within the space community. Like Dislike Love Funny Angry Sad Wow Sep 14, 2023 0 Nov 11, 2023 0 May 11, 2023 0 May 2, 2023 0 May 22, 2023 0 Aug 3, 2023 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 Apr 21, 2024 0 Nov 8, 2023 0 Apr 30, 2024 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 Jan 22, 2024 0 We value your privacy! This website uses cookies to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalized content. By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.
KTECH is In-House competitions of KICSIT. KTECH comprise twenty four different technical and co-curricular competitions. The Fourth chapter of KTECH is conducted on 10th to 14th January 2022.
Sign in
Ministry of Federal Education Approves National Curriculum... List of Frequently Asked Questions regarding the National Curriculum of Pakistan for Grades 1-12 and Early Childhood Education Currently there are no Job Opening in organization
National Center of GIS and Space Applications is one of the five major initiatives of Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan towards developing capabilities in the emerging technologies. The center comprises of 7 state-of-the-art research labs in 7 partner higher education institutes of Pakistan. NCGSA encompasses endeavors that strive to achieve and sustain human, technological, research and entrepreneurial capacity in the areas of space science, technology and its applications. NCGSA Research Labs are dedicated to cutting edge research in the domains varying from Geo Information Science, Remote Sensing, Astronomy & Astrophysics to Space Education, Global Navigation Satellite Systems and Small Satellite Technology. Leading researchers and scientists of Pakistan have come together to ensure significant contribution required towards capacity building at national level in GIS and Space Application Sector. At NCGSA, every collaboration within the space sector is important for us. We believe it is only cooperation, coordination and collaboration through which increasing number of amateurs, scientists and researchers get a chance to interact and benefit from each other. Since its inception, NCGSA has aimed to build synergistic and mutually beneficial linkages with academia and industry related with space science technology and its application. “Allah is He Who has created the heavens and the earth, and He sent down rainwater from the sky wherewith He produced different kinds of fruits to provide you with food. It is He Who subdued the ship for you that it may sail in the seas by His order and likewise He subdued the rivers for you. It is He Who subdued the sun and the moon so that they should steadfastly pursue their courses and He subdued day and night for you.”[(32-33) Surah Al Ibrahim: Al-Quran]
National Center of GIS and Space Applications (NCGSA) has a mandate for space awareness, education and outreach. In continuation of these endeavors, 180 seconds Space Film Festival (180SSFF) has been planned. NCGSA invites the space enthusiasts and visual creators from all over the world to share their creative work of 180 seconds maximum duration, in the form of animation / fiction / documentary related to the theme of “Space Science, Technology and its Applications”. Objective NCGSA aims to involve the artistic community to explore the beauty, wonders and applications of space science and technology through their creative lens. The participants may look into the following themes and ideas (but not limited to) for their productions Best film of each genre will be awarded with cash award of 50K PKR Certificate of Participation (Team Certificate) will be given to all submitted productions There will be following 5 additional technical award titles and certificates Best Editing Best Sound Design Best Cinematography Best Production Design Best Film Poster Email: 180ssff@ncgsa.org.pk Cell: +92-(0)-324-7571133 / +92-(0)-51-9075799 National Center Of GIS & Space Application
The emerging demand of GIS and Space Applications for the socio-economic development of Pakistan impelled the HEC to develop the National Center of GIS and Space Applications in addition to the already established four national centers, namely the National Center on Artificial Intelligence, Big Data and Cloud Computing, Robotics and Automation, and Cyber Security. The centers envisaged the development in futuristic areas that are of strategic national importance, economic benefit, creation of knowledge economy, and scientific leadership. In this regard HEC proposed the establishment of the National Centre of GIS & Space Applications. With the development of NCGSA, we will achieve the following objectives: To develop specialized scientific human resource and national capacity in the field of space science, technology and applications to carry out research and development in this growing scientific domain for the socio-economic uplift and development of Pakistan. To develop new and to upgrade existing models, maps, solutions, data, prototypes and products along with academic and research output in the areas of environment, climate, water, agriculture, geoscience, geo-health, geo-forensic, mineral inventory, positioning applications, small satellite development, computational and observational astronomy & astrophysics, space education and awareness. To design solutions for local users and taking them to market through technology commercialization, patenting and licensing and to develop National/International linkages, outreach and capacity building in the fields of GIS and Space Applications. To provide high-value shared services to academia, startups and private/public industrial partners. To create awareness among general masses about the bounties of space technology and its applications and to create a hub for hands-on training and workshops for students, academicians, professionals, entrepreneurs and public /private industry. NCGSA Research Labs aims significant progress in the following research domains: Geo Forensic, Geo Health and Geo hazards Mineral Inventory Theoretical, Computational and Observational Astronomy & Astrophysics Space Education, Outreach and Capacity Building GNSS Research, Development and Applications Small Satellite Development Capacity Building in Space Sector Remote Sensing for Agriculture Geological Applications of GIS and Remote Sensing Water and Forest Resources Climate and Environment Land Use, Land Cover and Urban Planning NCGSA Research labs are housed at following 7 Higher Education Institutes around Pakistan: Balochistan University of IT, Engineering and Management Sciences (BUITEMS), Quetta Sardar Bahadur Khan Women University (SBK), Quetta Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad University of Agriculture Faisalabad (UAF), Faisalabad University of Peshawar (UOP), Peshawar Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University (SBBU), Sheringal, Dir University of the Punjab (UOP), Lahore National Steering Committee is a supra body which supervises the execution of the project activities and provides constructive and timely feedback to the center to continuously improve its performance. NSC comprises of the following esteemed members: Research and M&E Officer “I don’t think the human race will survive the next thousand years, unless we spread into space.” ―Stephen Hawking
University of Agriculture, Faisalabad Pakistan possesses an agrarian economy, where agriculture contributes about 21% to our GDP, makes up nearly 50% of the work force, and provides livelihood to more than 67% of our population, most of which resides in rural areas. Since agriculture uses majority of our land, water and soil resources; therefore, effective management of these resources is directly related to sustainable agricultural development and poverty reduction. Some of the challenges facing Pakistan’s water sector include intensity and extremes of rainfall; widespread glacial melts; increased non-beneficial evaporation; and changes in soil moisture and runoff. In addition to these challenges, increased demand for water (urban and rural) and competition among its users can impact food security and increase pressures on aquifers. Remote sensing through satellite imagery can help estimate Land Use and Land Cover (LULC), rainfall, soil moisture, groundwater abstractions, canopy cover and total evapotranspiration (ET) without acquiring extensive ground data. Maps can be developed to provide information on crop water use, biomass and yield, thus overall water productivity of each agro-ecological zone. Regional monitoring of cropping systems and biomass/yield estimation are of significant interest for the sustainable development of agriculture, managing agricultural lands, and determining food pricing and policies. The development of advanced methodologies at the proposed lab parameterized through satellite data will be helpful to develop near future yield forecasts, estimate biomass and reflectance based soil characteristics, gap-fill missing weather information and provide strategies for climate risk mitigation, reallocations and transfers. Domain 1 – Water 1. To develop mechanism for determining regional scale water availability, stress and diversions from PRSS satellite imagery 2. To formulate PRSS satellite-based techniques for assessing actual crop-water use and projecting agricultural water shortages 3. To develop digital image processing protocols for pattern recognition and change detection in regional scale snow covers, precipitation and soil-moisture 4. To develop framework at basin level equitable water allocations and distribution for irrigated agriculture Domain 2 – Soil 1. To develop techniques to synthesize high resolution soil moisture maps using PRSS satellite imagery 2. To upscale existing GIS based soil maps of Punjab using PRSS satellite information for agricultural areas of irrigated Indus Basin Domain 3 – Crops 1. To develop satellite-imagery integrated mechanistic models for Crop-water productivity mapping 2. To improve crop coefficients in variable agro-ecological zones of the country using newly available PRSS satellite imagery 3. To improve existing crop models by integrating satellite-imagery for regional scale agro-ecosystems modelling and yield estimates No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Wellbeing Quality Education Life Below Water
The Astronomy Camp provides an excellent platform to explore interest in interstellar activities and modern day tool and techniques in action, featuring interactive lectures, hands-on activities, software tools and observation session in the domains of Fundamentals of Astronomy, Observational Astronomy and Computational Astronomy. Fundamentals of Astronomy Observational Astronomy Computational Astronomy Dates: Friday – Sunday March 18 – 20, 2022Participant Age Group: Grade 8 – 12 (O/A Level)Venue: Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadTimings: 1600 – 2100 hours Registration Fee: PKR 5000/- per participants (non-refundable/non-transferable) Registration Deadline: Monday, March 14, 2022 or earlier of the registration slots are filled Bank: Habib Bank Limited F-7 Bank Account Title: Institute of Space Technology OR Funds from Other Bank Account No: 2446-00129030-01 IBAN: PK81 HABB 0024460012903001 Institute of Space Technology (IST) is a Tax Free Entity having FTN No. 9010613-0 issued by Federal Board of Revenue (FBR). Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
National Center of GIS and Space Applications is one of the five major initiatives of Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan towards developing capabilities in the emerging technologies. The center comprises of 7 state-of-the-art research labs in 7 partner higher education institutes of Pakistan. NCGSA encompasses endeavors that strive to achieve and sustain human, technological, research and entrepreneurial capacity in the areas of space science, technology and its applications. NCGSA Research Labs are dedicated to cutting edge research in the domains varying from Geo Information Science, Remote Sensing, Astronomy & Astrophysics to Space Education, Global Navigation Satellite Systems and Small Satellite Technology. Leading researchers and scientists of Pakistan have come together to ensure significant contribution required towards capacity building at national level in GIS and Space Application Sector. At NCGSA, every collaboration within the space sector is important for us. We believe it is only cooperation, coordination and collaboration through which increasing number of amateurs, scientists and researchers get a chance to interact and benefit from each other. Since its inception, NCGSA has aimed to build synergistic and mutually beneficial linkages with academia and industry related with space science technology and its application. “Allah is He Who has created the heavens and the earth, and He sent down rainwater from the sky wherewith He produced different kinds of fruits to provide you with food. It is He Who subdued the ship for you that it may sail in the seas by His order and likewise He subdued the rivers for you. It is He Who subdued the sun and the moon so that they should steadfastly pursue their courses and He subdued day and night for you.”[(32-33) Surah Al Ibrahim: Al-Quran]
Please feel free to contact us if you have any queries, suggestions or complaints. +92-51-9075799 +92-51-9075578 Alternatively, you can also mention your queries, suggestions or complaints and our representative will get in touch with you soon!
University of Peshawar Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University, Sheringal, Dir Pakistan is located in one of the most tectonically and seismically active regions around the world. Challenges induced by the active tectonic are frequent geohazards including landslides and earthquakes, with significant human and economic losses. Nevertheless, Pakistan is blessed with precious mineral resources with significant potential to enhance the socio-economic conditions of the country. However, given the lack of modern technology, most of the mineral resources located in the rough terrain and inaccessible areas, have remained unexplored. Water and forests are the critical natural resource of Pakistan. Characterization and temporal monitoring of the water and forest resources can assist for their categorization and sustainable utilization. The G-SAG lab aims to utilize the advanced GIS techniques and remote sensing data supported with the in-situ data for geosciences applications with specific focus on geohazards, geological applications, forests and water resources. The centers envisaged the development in futuristic areas that are of strategic national importance, economic benefit and for the creation of knowledge economy and scientific leadership. In this regard HEC proposes the establishment of the National Centre of GIS & Space Applications and National Centre of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology. Considering the national needs and research priorities, the following application domains are selected by the G-SAG lab. Domain 1 – Geohazards The G-SAG aims to utilize the advanced GIS techniques, space and air-borne remote sensing and field measurements to assess and evaluate the landslides induced susceptibility, hazard, vulnerability and risk assessment; and seismic micro-zonation maps. Domain 2 – Geological Applications The G-SAG plans to apply space and air-borne hyperspectral images and image interpretation techniques for the seamless mapping of lithological units and demarcation and characterization of the mineral zones. Domain 3 – Water Resource Dynamics To evaluate the influence of various components of the hydrological cycle on water resources dynamics. Domain 4 – Forest Resource Assessment Applying and development of space and air-borne remote sensing methods for the assessment, characterization, and change detection of forest resources. No Poverty Zero Hunger Life Below Water
International Conference on Aerospace Science & Engineering (ICASE) is a regular biennial event to provide an International forum in which scientists, researchers, engineers, academicians, industry professionals, entrepreneurs, and students from all over the world, get a chance to interact and discuss the latest themes and trends related to Aerospace Science & Engineering. It provides a platform to share experiences, foster collaborations across industry and academia, and to evaluate emerging technologies and developments across the globe in the fields of space science, technology and application. ICASE facilitates in establishing dialogues leading to long-lasting technical cooperation among the scientists and engineers of the developing and developed countries. Meeting ID: 995 2351 6981 Passcode: 834064 “Researchers, Scientists, Engineers, Academicians, Private and Public Industry Professionals, Entrepreneurs and Students are invited to submit the of latest, unpublished research findings relevant to ICASE 2021 themes and topics by August 31, 2021. Accepted papers will be submitted for inclusion into IEEE Xplore subject to meeting IEEE Xplore’s scope and quality requirements.” National Center of GIS & Space Applications Institute of Space Technology 1, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad 44000 Pakistan +92 -(0)51-9075799, +92333-2662857 Fax: +92 (0) 519273310 icase2021@yahoo.com ,
International Conference on Aerospace Science & Engineering (ICASE) is a regular biennial event to provide an International forum in which scientists, researchers, engineers, academicians, industry professionals, entrepreneurs, and students from all over the world, get a chance to interact and discuss the latest themes and trends related to Aerospace Science & Engineering. It provides a platform to share experiences, foster collaborations across industry and academia, and to evaluate emerging technologies and developments across the globe in the fields of space science, technology and application. ICASE facilitates in establishing dialogues leading to long-lasting technical cooperation among the scientists and engineers of the developing and developed countries. Meeting ID: 995 2351 6981 Passcode: 834064 “Researchers, Scientists, Engineers, Academicians, Private and Public Industry Professionals, Entrepreneurs and Students are invited to submit the of latest, unpublished research findings relevant to ICASE 2021 themes and topics by August 31, 2021. Accepted papers will be submitted for inclusion into IEEE Xplore subject to meeting IEEE Xplore’s scope and quality requirements.” National Center of GIS & Space Applications Institute of Space Technology 1, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad 44000 Pakistan +92 -(0)51-9075799, +92333-2662857 Fax: +92 (0) 519273310 icase2021@yahoo.com ,
The registration for Author has been closed, for any queries you may please contact. ICASE Secretariat Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan Office: +92-(0)51-9075799 Mobile No: +92-(0)333-5329101 Email: icase@ist.edu.pk Website: ncgsa.org.pk/icase Facebook: www.facebook.com/ICASE.IST
Registration Fee : PKR 25,000/- Registration Deadline : Thursday, November 30, 2021 The registration fee includes the stall space and 2x representatives as visitors. Visitors shall also be provided conference material Payment will be made to: IST FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES Bank Name: Habib Bank Ltd. Bank Address: College Road, F-7, Islamabad, Pakistan. Account Name: IST FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES Account No: PK81 HABB 0024460012903001 Account Address: College Road, F-7, Islamabad, Pakistan. Swift Code: HABBPKKA The registration for Exhibitor Registration has been closed, for any queries you may please contact. ICASE Secretariat Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan Office: +92-(0)51-9075799 Mobile No: +92-(0)333-5329101 Email: icase@ist.edu.pk Website: ncgsa.org.pk/icase Facebook: www.facebook.com/ICASE.IST
The registration for Meet the Scientist and STEM Forum has been closed, for any queries you may please contact. ICASE Secretariat Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan Office: +92-(0)51-9075799 Mobile No: +92-(0)333-5329101 Email: icase@ist.edu.pk Website: ncgsa.org.pk/icase Facebook: www.facebook.com/ICASE.IST
Registration Fee : PKR 5000/- Registration Deadline : Thursday, November 30, 2021 Pertaining to COVID-19 precautions, refreshments and lunches will not be offered to visitors in order to ensure maximum social distancing at event venues. However, visitors shall be provided conference material. Payment will be made to: IST FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES Bank Name: Habib Bank Ltd. Bank Address: College Road, F-7, Islamabad, Pakistan. Account Name: IST FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES Account No: PK81 HABB 0024460012903001 Account Address: College Road, F-7, Islamabad, Pakistan. Swift Code: HABBPKKA The registration for Visitor Registration has been closed, for any queries you may please contact. ICASE Secretariat Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan Office: +92-(0)51-9075799 Mobile No: +92-(0)333-5329101 Email: icase@ist.edu.pk Website: ncgsa.org.pk/icase Facebook: www.facebook.com/ICASE.IST
A total of 5 workshops are planned to be conducted during ICASE, 2021. National and International Subject Matter Experts will deliver insightful talks and conduct hands-on training activities during these workshops. This workshop will cover conceptual design of an EO CubeSat for a selected EO mission with primary focus on mission and orbit design, payload selection, sizing and subsystem analysis and drawings. Professor Space Systems Design and Test Laboratory, Department of Aerospace Engineering Istanbul Technical University(ITU) Turkey This workshop is designed to implement an intelligent computer vision algorithm to detect celestial objects in wide field deep sky astronomical images using Python programming language. This workshop will also aim to provide a broad overview of Computational Astrophysics that combines modern computational methods, advanced algorithms and original software implementations to discover new phenomena, and to make predictions in astronomy. Professor and Chair at Department of Computer and Information Systems Engineering, This workshop will introduce SAR as an imaging radar instrument, and its use in Earth Remote Sensing. The basic SAR imaging mechanisms will be discussed, followed by an introduction to satellite-based SAR systems, data processing tools, data analysis basics, and SAR image interpretation / analysis. The vast range of SAR remote sensing applications will be discussed, followed by hands-on exercises on ESA SNAP software. CTO at Offshore Monitoring Ltd This workshop is jointly hosted by Institute of Space Technology (IST) and Inter Islamic Network on Space Sciences & Technology (ISNET). The main objective of the Workshop is to develop capacity of aspiring students/graduates and young professionals in the field of geomagnetism and ionosphere by imparting onsite training on observatory operation and lectures by international experts on space weather research, operations and services . This short workshop is organised to develop and enhance the capacity of the post-graduate students, mid-carrier professionals to provide basic knowledge of these technologies utilisation of the free satellite data, software’s and online resources to effectively implement a mid-level project. Associate Professor at the National Centre of Excellence in Geology, University of Peshawar. Mr. Faaiz Jeelani Email: faaiz.ahmed@mail.ist.edu.pk | faaiz.jeelani@hotmail.com Phone: +92(0)-51-907-5578 / 5799 | +92(0)-333-2662857 Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad, Pakistan.
NCGSA believes in collaborations for betterment for space science, technology and its applications. Number of national and international industrial and academic organizations have joined hands with NCGSA to pursue excellence and mutually beneficial relationship in the sector of GIS and Space Applications. NCGSA conducts a cosmos of targeted events, training, workshops, conferences, and seminars for the creation of space awareness and outreach. Here are the latest activities planned to quench the thirst of inquisitive minds. NCGSA has a targeted space awareness and outreach program which creates awareness in the participant of all ages using a wide range of targeted events, celebrations, knowledge-based competitions, school programs, conferences, and seminars. Through variety of trainings and workshops to provide hands on experience to the participants in the domains of space science and technology, workshops and trainings are conducted for young space enthusiasts, science teachers, industrialists, researchers and professionals of different allied domains. NCGSA believes in collaborations for betterment for space science, technology and its applications. Number of national and international industrial and academic organizations have joined hands with NCGSA to pursue excellence and mutually beneficial relationship in the sector of GIS and Space Applications. Interested in a collaboration for an ongoing or a new initiative? “For every one billion particles of antimatter there were one billion and one particles of matter. And when the mutual annihilation was complete, one billionth remained – and that’s our present universe.” – Albert Einstein
Researchers, Scientists, Engineers, Academicians, Private and Public Industry Professionals, Entrepreneurs and Students are invited to submit the of latest, unpublished research findings relevant to ICASE 2021 themes and topics by August 31, 2021. Selected papers will be published in IEEE Xplore. National Center of GIS & Space Applications Institute of Space Technology 1, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad 44000 Pakistan +92 -(0)51-9075799, +92333-2662857 Fax: +92 (0) 519273310 icase2021@yahoo.com ,
National CanSat Competition 2024 is an initiative of Space Education Research Lab (SERL) of National Center of GIS & Space Applications (NCGSA), Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, Pakistan. It aims for Space Technology Education and Popularization (STEP) through STEM education by design, development & launch of student satellite, the CanSat. A CanSat is a simulation of a real satellite, which is designed and integrated within the size and shape of a soda can. The challenge for students is to incorporate all the major subsystems of a satellite (power, communication, OBDH, attitude, payload etc.) into this mini model. Space Education Research Lab of National Center of GIS & Space Applications has made tremendous contributions to STEM education, in the realm of Satellite Technology. Through innovative initiatives, SERL lab has consistently played a key role in fostering concepts of satellite technology and its applications among the youth. The notable STEM based events organized by SERL lab encompass CanSat Workshop (2023), Space Maker Camp (2023), STEM for Space Technology (2023), Let’s Build a CanSat (2023), Space Destination School (2023) and Beaconhouse Notion of Academia (BNA’2024). Competition Phases: CanSat Mission Phase 1 : Registration Eligibility Criteria: Phase 2: Mission Design Boot Camp Phase 3: CanSat Design & Development Workshop Phase 4: Launch & Mission Brief Link to registration: Following is a list of submission links of the competition deliverables: Note: Each team has to bring on 25th – 26th April, Functional CanSat Hardware along with printed reports and printed posters. National Cansat Champion PKR 100,000 and shield National Cansat Runner up PKR 50,000 and shield Certificate of Participation for all the Participants Note: All participants will get the Participation Certificates by Space Education Research Lab (SERL), National Center of GIS & Space Applications (NCGSA), Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, Pakistan on the submission of required documents and participation in all phases.
NCGSA has a provision of research fund of PKR 200 Million. The fund will cater for conducting research activities in the field of Space Science, Technology and Applications, particularly the Geographic Information Science (GISc.). This funding opportunity aims at fostering the transition from research and technology to integration and business. This shall help new space products, processes and solutions to reach the market. NCGSA invites research proposals from faculty members & researchers of Higher Education Institutions and Research & Development organizations of Pakistan. The research proposals should focus on sustainable socio-economic development of Pakistan through Space Science, Technology and its Applications. The key parameter for research fund award shall be the relevance of research proposals with Space Science, Technology and Applications, particularly the Geographic Information Science. Proposals shall be welcomed in all domains of GIS and Space Applications, however the proposals having significant overlap with the domains / outputs already being covered under the current PC-1 through NCGSA affiliated labs will not be considered for the research fund. To outstand, the proposal should have clearly defined solution-oriented outcomes and outputs. Furthermore, the proposals with strong industrial and developmental partnerships will be preferred. Research Grants will be provided on competitive basis in the following major domains (but not limited to) resulting in sustainable products / applications / prototypes / solutions with potential of commercialization and leading to contributions in the socio-economic development of Pakistan. Applicant must be full time faculty member of Public/Private Higher Education Institution or Researcher of R&D Organization of Pakistan. The proposals should be academia-industry joint projects leading towards sustainable socio-economic growth. Preference will be given to the proposals having the Principal Investigator(PI) from academia and Co-PI (collaboration) with public/private industry or R&D organizations. a. Duration: Two years (24 Months) Maximum b. Award Value: Up to 15.00 Million PKR Proposals for funding should be submitted by filling out the form provided in the package below. Package Includes: Download the NCGSA Research Fund proposal form and allied documents Complete research proposals must reach NCGSA Secretariat through all of the following platforms by April 29, 2021: 1. 2. Email complete Application at researchfund@ncgsa.org.pk; ncgsa@ist.edu.pk3. Send Hardcopy to NCGSA Secretariat on the following postal address: Phone: +92-51-9075799
At NCGSA every collaboration within the space sector is important for us. We believe it is only cooperation, coordination and collaboration through which increasing number of likeminded people get a chance to interact and benefit from each other on an organizational level. If you as an individual, company or organization can foresee a mutually beneficial collaboration for the betterment of research and accomplishments in space sector, feel free to contact us on the links/emails/contact numbers provided. We are always looking for young talent. If you think your knowledge and energy can boost our research, please fill out the form provided. “We can judge our progress by the courage of our questions and the depth of our answers, our willingness to embrace what is true rather than what feels good.” ― Carl Sagan
University of the Punjab, Lahore The Remote Sensing, GIS and Climatic Research Lab (RSGCRL), University of the Punjab, Lahore shall promote and facilitate education, research activities and collaborations to study and develop GIS and Space Applications with particular emphasis on sustainable development in Pakistan, and cost-effective tools for developing world. The research and development activities of the lab will contribute towards sustainable development in Pakistan through (i) Developing a broader analytical base from ground and satellite data for an effective and informed decision making for professional institutions and policy makers, and (ii) Designing and developing efficient and cost-effective GIS and Space Applications for climate change analyses, and (iii) Building professional and academic capacity for adaptation/mitigation/prevention strategies to combat climate change, and (iv) Increasing research and development activities through collaborations with national and international professional organizations Tools, technologies, and scientific approaches related to GIS and Space Applications would be utilized Domain 1 – Atmospheric Reactive and Greenhouse Gases To monitor atmospheric reactive and green-house gases, their transport, and assess their impact on climate change. Domain 2 – Urban Planning and Solid Waste Management Urban planning with particular emphasis on solid waste management, gases emissions and their impact on ecology. Domain 3 – Land-use/Landcover To assess the Land-use/Landcover (LULC) changes, water crises, and their impact on climate change. Domain 4 – Natural and Anthropogenic Aerosols To monitor natural and anthropogenic aerosols, track transboundary aerosols, and assess their radiative impact on climate change. Good Health and Wellbeing Quality Education
Substantial rise in public demands for provision of efficient services and systems by the government can only be met with efficient decision support systems. One way to handle this restless onslaught of demographic pressure is to improve performance of several systems and services available for public by making use of spatial data. The availability of data along with an effective decision support system can help in the understanding of problems and the possible outcomes of decisions. In addition, the availability of spatial data based decision support systems can greatly improve policy and plan making process while reducing time and human resources. Geographic Information systems (GIS) are known technology to manage spatial databases. Our research group envisions contributing in the area of Spatial Decision Support Systems (SDSS) that deals with spatial dimension through digitized geo-referenced spatial databases. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the study of space and various astrophysical phenomena has entered a golden age. With the advent of the 21st century this research promises further exciting discoveries in these domains. This research encompasses areas as diverse as the study of the space around the Earth, the Sun and its impact on the Earth, the Solar System, the study of star systems, neutron stars, black holes as well as the study of galaxies and the large scale study about the Universe. SARL focuses on acquiring indigenous research infrastructure and develop manpower to study the dynamics of space and astrophysical systems including the ionosphere, magnetosphere, Sun, stars, galaxies, high energy astrophysical systems and gravitational waves. Global Navigation Satellite System has emerged to be an integral part in major businesses around the world including banking, agriculture, security etc. With almost all developed nations currently operating or planning to operate a fully functional GNSS, GSERL aims to contribute in the field at regional and global level. Almost all developing countries struggle with the awareness of the benefit of space science and technology among its general masses. This in turn results in loss of public support, lack of human resource and consequently a slow paced space program. Space Education Research Lab focuses on spreading mass awareness among the general masses by actively engaging them at all level in outreach and awareness activities and initiatives With the worldwide success of satellite programs and countless spins offs in terms of business, applications and research potential, space science and technology research community has now begun excessive experimentation and identification of benefits of small satellite technology. Growing concerns of space debris, enormous developmental costs and similar concerns with satellite technology have shown considerable mitigation potential through small satellites. SSTRL focuses on the cutting edge innovation and technology in the domain of micro, nano and pico satellites. Since the beginning of the agricultural revolution some 12000 years ago, agriculture has been one of the primary means of human sustainability on planet Earth. With the population concerns around the world grows, so does the need for efficient and highly productive agricultural sector. Remote sensing has found a significant application in the agricultural sector. Through implementation of comprehensive analysis from satellite imagery, agriculture around the world can be more targeted and yielding than it was in the past decade. ARSL focuses on remote sensing, its implementation techniques and its direct relation to the quality of yield produced in a particular region. Pakistan is located in one of the most seismically and tectonically active regions around the world which can be mainly attributed to the northward movement of the Indian tectonic plate at a rate of 31 mm/year and sub ducting beneath the Eurasian continent. This collision of the Indian and Eurasian plates resulted in development of world highest mountain ranges i.e. Karakoram, Himalaya and Hindu Kush mountain ranges. The historic collision of the Indian Plate with Eurasian plate and current active tectonic in Pakistan, leads to many challenges and also opportunities. The aim of the lab is to effectively utilize the tools of GIS, remote sensing data and ground data to assist in mitigation of the adverse impacts of geohazards; and exploration and management of natural resources including minerals, water and forest. Most vulnerable countries facing Climate Change risks with very low technical, financial and professional capacity to adapt/mitigate/prevent its adverse impact are often the developing countries around the globe. Climate Change aggravates the social inequalities, and intensifies social factors leading to displacement, conflicts, instability, and changes in migration patterns. Low budget and lacking in technical support/human and professional capacity are few among the biggest hurdles for these countries. RSGCRL focuses on SPACE BORNE DATA with proper GIS ANALYSES which can provide low cost and easy to adopt alternatives to adapt/mitigate/prevent Climate Change to support decision making systems of the developing world. “The cosmos is within us. We are made of star-stuff. We are a way for the universe to know itself.”– Carl Sagan
Registration Fee : PKR 3000/- Registration Deadline : November 30, 2021 Payment will be made to: IST FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES Bank Name: Habib Bank Ltd. Bank Address: College Road, F-7, Islamabad, Pakistan. Account Name: IST FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES Account No: PK81 HABB 0024460012903001 Account Address: College Road, F-7, Islamabad, Pakistan. Swift Code: HABBPKKA The registration for Research Poster Display has been closed, for any queries you may please contact. ICASE Secretariat Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan Office: +92-(0)51-9075799 Mobile No: +92-(0)333-5329101 Email: icase@ist.edu.pk Website: ncgsa.org.pk/icase Facebook: www.facebook.com/ICASE.IST
The registration for Research Fund Poster Display has been closed, for any queries you may please contact. ICASE Secretariat Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan Office: +92-(0)51-9075799 Mobile No: +92-(0)333-5329101 Email: icase@ist.edu.pk Website: ncgsa.org.pk/icase Facebook: www.facebook.com/ICASE.IST
Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad Capacity building in the field of small satellite technology while providing opportunity to Pakistani students of carrying out space experiments through SUPARCO and international collaboration. Domain 1 – Capacity Building in the Field of Small Satellite Technology In recent years, the development of pico/nano satellites has changed the satellite industry in a very drastic way. The conventional big satellites whose development is usually associated with the big space agencies and commercial companies are also now moving towards the development of very small to medium size satellites. Most of the missions are now planned and designed as a cluster of pico/nano/micro satellites. The advent of CubeSat standard enables the classroom satellite concept and now the students can plan, design and launch a complete CubeSat during their course of study. SSTR will focus on the development of CubeSat training equipment (CTE) which will be provided free-of-cost to various universities of Pakistan. The students will be trained using that equipment for the capacity building in the field of small satellite technology. Domain 2 – Joint Mission to Plan, Design and Develop A 3U Cubesat SSTR lab will plan, design and develop a 3U CubeSat in collaboration with various universities of Pakistan. The undergraduate/postgraduate students will not only be involved during all the stages of the mission planning and design but also during the testing and commissioning phase. The overall mission will be defined as a collective effort among the students and a contest will be organized to shortlist novel mission ideas. Domain 3 – Remote Access of IST Ground Station A satellite ground station was developed by IST in order to communicate with the amateur class satellite. The ground station can communicate in the VHF/UHF/S-band. The SSTR Lab will develop and enable the remote access of this ground station so that students all over the Pakistan can have access to this ground station. It will help them to download free-of-cost data available from various pico/nano satellites for the purpose of experimentation. Apart from the above-mentioned application domains, there are several areas on SSTR lab will work in future and in-collaboration with various affiliated labs of this center. However, this is only possible after the enhancement of the lab not only in-terms of the available equipment but also in-terms of further human resource. Good Health and Wellbeing Quality Education Partnerships to achieve the Goal
Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad The Space and Astrophysics Research Lab aims to develop the field of astronomy and astrophysics in Pakistan. The study of space, the Universe, stars, galaxies and various other astrophysical phenomena is centuries old endeavor and has been intertwined with the development of human societies. Astronomy and astrophysics is currently in a golden age with the development of new observatories, theoretical understanding and growing computational resources. However, in Pakistan, this area of research is next to non-existent and we aim to develop it through the following domains. Domain 1 – Theory This involves the theoretical study of various astrophysical phenomena, with a particular focus on solar physics, the ionosphere, astrophysical plasmas, pulsars, high energy phenomena. Domain 2 – Computation This area concerns simulations, data analysis and their implications. Particular areas of focus include the simulations and study of galaxy and supermassive black hole mergers, gravitational wave events, gravitational wave data analysis, high energy astrophysics, gamma-ray bursts, active galactic nuclei, gamma-ray astronomy. Domain 3 – Observation The focus of this area is on capacity building in the area of optical observations. Our goals involve studying various objects in the Solar system such as planets near Earth objects, comets, binary stars, variable stars and exoplanets. Quality Education
Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad GNSS and Space Education Research Lab (GSERL) is dedicated to produce cutting edge research outputs and human resource capacity building in the field of Global Navigation Satellite Systems and space. Major research activities of GSERL include but not limited to transport monitoring system, livestock management using GNSS, Jamming & Spoofing, GNSS – INS Integration and GNSS Augmentation Systems. GSERL, in collaboration with the international GNSS community and local resources, aims to develop significant tools and techniques on national level to help harvest numerous benefits of GNSS and space applications. GSERL also focuses on research for methods to spread mass awareness on national level about space science, technology and its applications through various summer/winter schools, seminars, events, workshops & training, competitions and public gatherings for all age groups. The lab aims to incorporate all the segments of the society towards a common goal of realizing the potential in space science & technology for socio-economic and technological development at national and international level. Domain 1 – Space Awareness and Outreach This application domain deals with the space education and awareness activities targeting general masses for the greater impact. Domain 2 – Education & Training This Application domain focuses on the education and specialized trainings related to space science & technology and GNSS. Several education programs, including degree programs will be run throughout the year to develop specialized human resource in the domains of Space Science & Technology and GNSS. Domain 3 – GNSS Research & Development This Application domain is specifically focused on GNSS. Purpose of the domain is to design and develop some hardware and software solutions using GNSS. These solutions will be focused on the real-life problems in our society. Domain 4 – GNSS Applications This domain deals with the applications and spins offs of GNSS. Various applications of GNSS technology will be applied to design solutions, applications and research products. Quality Education Reduced Inequality Sustainable Cities and Communities Climate Action Life Below Water Partnership to Achieve Goals
China Association of Science and Technology (CAST) and Ministry of Science and Technology, China, in collaboration with Ministry of Science and Technology, Pakistan, National Center of GIS and Space Applications, Institute of Space Technology, Pakistan Science Foundation, and ECO Science Foundation are organising The Belt and Road Teenager Space Maker Camp. In Phase-1 of this Space Makers Camp, the teenager participants (12 -18 years) will compete by developing the cubesat using the materials of their own choice. NCGSA aspires to engage the resourceful youth of Pakistan in contributing towards space technology for the socio-economic development of Pakistan. The participants of Space Maker Camp are expected to depict the technical knowledge and understanding for design, development, and production of cube satellite and to compete with international community. The Space Maker Camp would consist of following three phases: The participants will develop a CubeSat according to the instructions and learning material available on the following link and finally will upload the video by Sunday, October 31, 2021. Link: The participants will also learn from the mentors and series of online lectures, conducted by NCGSA. CubeSats are built to standard dimensions (Units or “U”) of 10cm x 10cm x 10cm. With a modular structure, CubeSats expand along one axis or multiple axes in units to form a 2U, 3U or even larger structure. For the purpose of this preselection, the maximum size of the CubeSat model shall not exceed 12U. The requirements on the use of materials are set out below: Engineering notes should be mainly text, and may include some diagrams as appropriate. Contestants may type engineering notes into an electronic document or write them by hand. In the latter case, the notes should be photographed or scanned to create a pdf file (with suffix being “.pdf”). The engineering notes should contain the following elements: Name of Work: the name of work should be reflective of the function and type of the CubeSat model, such as “CubeSat solution for communication in unmanned areas of the Nafud Desert, or “Remote-sensing CubeSat solution for monitoring the changes of Arctic glaciers”. Functional Description: to clearly describe the application scenarios and functions of the CubeSat designed. Design Drawing: it is suggested that contestants present the exterior of the CubeSat in the form of a three-view drawing, and add words to describe important parts if necessary. Structural Design: contestants should clearly depict the structures of the CubeSat model through pictures and explanatory notes. The structure drawing can be hand-drawn or computer-drawn. Materials Used: contestants should make a list of materials used to build the CubeSat model. Building Processes: contestants may record the entire building processes by words or the combination of pictures and words. Key Technologies: please describe in the engineering notes whether the work uses some key technologies. The video should be in AVI, MOV or MP4 format, with size and length not exceeding 500 Mb and 10 minutes, respectively. The video shall be clear. The soundtrack, subtitles and footage should be kept in sync with no obvious noise. The voiceover shall be in English and have good sound quality. There shall be no errors in the subtitles. The video should include six parts: self-introduction or team introduction; process of theme research; process of work design; process of work building; structures and functions of the finished work; self-summary. There is no restriction with regard to the form of video presentation, yet it should to be easily understood by the viewer. There is no registration fee Submission Method Submission will be made via the online portal. Contestants must upload their project notes and work presentation videos to the official website according to the relevant requirements. The work submitted should include engineering notes and a video. Each team can only submit one work for the preselection. Each team should submit original works and avoid similar designs. Requirements for Submission Contestants should uniformly name their engineering notes and videos in the format of “country + region + team name + work name (engineering notes / video)” before uploading their works to . In the second phase of the camp, NCGSA will conduct an online quiz for selection of top 30 participants to participate in face to face all Pakistan Space Makers Camp to design, develop and launch the CubeSat. Teams will be developed and mentored by the experts Face to Face competition will be held for design of satellites. The Space Maker Camp is focused to explore the paradigm of CubeSat technology and applications for the socio-economic development. Centering around the resolution of environmental issues (including but not limited to vegetation mutation, air pollution, glacier melting, etc.), social issues (including but not limited to post-disaster reconstruction, the impact of the COVID 19 pandemic, etc.) and economic development issues (including but not limited to urban development, rural development, urban-rural differences, etc.) that are of major concern to the international community, contestants are required to devise a CubeSat model with both appropriate functions and appealing look. Contestants can sign up as an individual or as a team. Each team shall have no more than three members, and there must be at least one instructor who shall be an adult over 18 years old. Parents can also serve as the instructor. The age of the contestant should be 12-18 years old, calculated based on the Gregorian calendar, i.e., the contestant must be born between September 1, 2003 and September 1, 2009. Registration for Mentoring & Training Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Baluchistan University of IT, Eng. and Management Sciences Sardar Bahadur Khan Women University (SBK) The Spatial Decision Support System Lab (SDSSL) is established at the Balochistan University of Information Technology, Engineering and Management Sciences (BUITEMS), Quetta, and the Sardar Bahadur Khan Women University (SBKWU), Quetta with BUITEMS as the primary lab. The SDSS lab focuses on three different domains including Geo-Health, Geo-Forensics, and on Minerals Inventory. In the Geo-Health domain, the lab focuses on research techniques for tracking and process mining using a novel approach to SDSS. Specifically, the approach is focused on improving the outreach of health services in general and coverage of immunization in particular that largely rely upon efficient record management and accurate predictions. Under the Geo-Forensics domain, our focus is to improve the digital forensics processes with the help of spatial data mapping. The increasing number of cybercrimes and digital frauds are becoming a threat to society that can be dealt with using advanced technology. In this regard GIS mapping of an incident could prove to be an essential tool. The Minerals inventory focuses on GIS mapping of minerals of Balochistan. With the use of remote sensing techniques for the mineral exploration, evaluation, and formal quantification of naturally occurring materials of Balochistan, we are focused to improve the management of mineral inventories. Domain 1 – Geo-forensic and Geo-Health 1. Design process to acquire seed data from partners/collaborators. 2. Perform data acquisition. This involves data fusion, filtering & pre-processing, data extraction, store and cleansing. 3. Perform spatial big data processing. This step may involve processing big data with aim at extraction of relevant features. Furthermore, data may require performing partitioning. 4. Next step involves evaluating several machine learning algorithms to get an effective learned model. 5. The rules learned in learned model shall be represented in ontologies. 6. SDSS for geo-forensic and geo-health shall be designed and developed based on these ontologies Domain 2 – Mineral Inventory Baluchistan The quantification of minerals (existing and new) is a systematic approach to accelerate the economic development of the country. Further, the human resource development associated with the development of Balochistan mineral inventory is a key factor in establishing geoscience-based technological advancement in the province. The mineral inventory will help provincial and Federal government to better understand the economic geology of the minerals in Balochistan and thereof to attract foreign investment. The use of remote sensing and GIS as a tool for mineral inventory will help to accelerate mineral exploration, evaluation, and production program. The project will revolutionize the natural resource development in the province. No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Wellbeing Quality Education Life Below Water
Fundamentals of Remote Sensing RS Processes and Satellite Data Attributes Satellite Data Acquisition: Tools & Techniques Satellite Image Processing Image Interpretation Applications in Disaster Management Agriculture Atmosphere, Environment and Climate Water Resource Management Forest Management Geological Resources Fundamentals of GISc Spatial Data Handling Terrain Mapping & Analysis Network & Location Analysis Spatial Databases GIS Applications in Cartography Urban Planning Hydrology & Water Resources Site & Suitability Analysis Utilities Management Hotspot Analysis Students: BS MS & PhD students. Professionals from Industry relevant to GIS & Remote Sensing BS /BSc (16 Yrs. of Education) in Earth Sciences/ Remote Sensing/ Geography/Space Science/Physics/ Relevant Fields of Sciences &Engineering. Basic Computer knowledge & Skills Limited Seats Available Account Title: IST Professional Development Center Bank: JS Bank Account No: 0001894146 IBAN: PK49JSBL9567000001894146 For Queries Contact: +92-335-5342765 | +92-344-2595051 Aaqib335@gmail.com
Space Summer School (SSS) is a specialized school/program designed specifically for school/college/university students to equip them with the wonders of space science, technology and its applications in an interactive manner. It aims to enlighten young minds with state-of-the-art technologies and research breakthroughs in space science and technology. The curriculum gives the intellectual launch to participants for moving from core of the Earth to the layers of atmosphere with intricacies of flight and aviation. The participants experience the technology behind the launch vehicles, rockets and launch facilities. The next academic learning is the development of satellites while exploring the size, technology and applications of various orbited satellites. The school concludes with the visualization of astronomy, astrophysics & astrobiology domains. It also includes the talks by astronauts, subject matter experts and career counseling in the field of space technology. It involves hands on activities, workshops, creative learning, artistic contributions, software simulations and hardware development. In 2017, the first Space Summer School was organized at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad with the collaboration of space startup named as Space Technology Education and Popularization (STEP), with the participation of more than 250 participants from all over Pakistan. It was a huge success and motivated the team for SSS 2018 and SSS 2019 with more than 100 participants each year. In 2020 & 2021, space summer school was conducted on-line due to covid-19 with the participation of more than 700 students from 8 different countries. Space Summer School will encapsulate a vast spectrum of Space Knowledge focusing in local and global prospective such that this spectrum of topics will lead to sufficient awareness among the audiences. The voyage of Space Science and Technology Knowledge will move from Earth and will accelerate towards space covering the milestones of Atmosphere, Aviation, Rocketry, Astronomy, Astrophysics & Astrobiology and Satellite Technology. It will also add flavors of International Space Collaborations, Careers and Applications to make this curriculum objective oriented, advanced and up to date. Earth & Atmosphere Aviation Rocketry Satellite Technology Astronomy & Astrophysics Space Applications & emerging technologies Bank Name: JS Bank Branch Name: Sihala Account Title: IST Professional Development Center Account Number: 0001894146 IBAN No: PK49JSBL9567000001894146 Age Group: Grade 8 –Grade 12 Date: July 25-29, 2022 Time: 1000 Hrs. – 1600 Hrs. For more details, please visit Facebook.com/SpaceOutreach Email: spacesummerschool@gmail.com Phone: +92-51-907-5799 Cell: +92- (0) -335-5342765
Space Education Research Lab of National Center of GIS and Space Applications, in collaboration with Office of Astronomy for Education, International Astronomical Union, is organizing Teachers Training Workshop 2023, from September 7-9, 2023 at IST, Islamabad. The 3-day workshop is a transformative event aimed at enhancing the skills and knowledge of primary and secondary school science educators. This workshop is a unique opportunity for science teachers to delve into the captivating realm of Space Education, equipping them with innovative teaching methodologies and engaging resources for school and college students. The primary goal of the workshop is to empower educators with the tools they need to ignite curiosity and enthusiasm for space exploration within their students. By merging theoretical understanding with practical pedagogy techniques, we aim to: Date: September 7-9, 2023 Venue: Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad Timings: 0900 – 1600 hours (Thursday and Saturday), 1430 – 2100 hours (Friday) This workshop is tailor-made for educators who are passionate about enriching science education in Pakistan. If you meet any of the following criteria, this workshop is a perfect fit for you: It’s an opportunity to connect with like-minded professionals, share best practices, and collaborate to enhance science education. Application Submission: Interested teachers are invited to submit their applications before August 11, 2023. Application includes a brief motivation statement that highlights their dedication to science education and their interest in space science and astronomy. Evaluation: Applications will be carefully evaluated based on their relevance to the workshop’s goals, the applicant’s experience in teaching science or physics subjects and their motivation statement. Notification: Selected participants will be notified via email, and they will be provided with detailed instructions on the next steps, including the registration process. The registration fee for the Teachers Training Workshop 2023 is set at 2000/- PKR. This fee covers essential components that enhance your workshop experience: Participant Package: A comprehensive package designed to support your learning journey throughout the workshop. Workshop Materials: Access to all workshop materials, resources, and tools needed for interactive and hands-on learning. Note: the registration fee does not cover transportation and lodging expenses, which will be the responsibility of the participants. Registration Deadline for the Workshop is August 11, 2023.
INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP ON GEOLOGICAL REMOTE SENSING & APPLICATIONS NCGSA is organizing an International Workshop on Geological Remote Sensing & Applications from June 5-6, 2024 at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan, in collaboration with one of the constituent labs of NCGSA, GIS & Space Applications in Geosciences Lab, NCEG, University of Peshawar. This 2 days course includes series of presentations, case studies, and hands-on exercises that discuss the state-of-the-art methods, sensors, and processing steps for various applications. By the end of the course, the participant will be able to identify opportunities for remote sensing technology in the exploration & mining value chain. National & International subject matter experts will be invited as Resource persons for the workshop. Students: BS MS & PhD students. Professionals from Industry relevant to Remote Sensing BS /BSc (16 Yrs. of Education) in Earth Sciences/ Remote Sensing/ Geography/Space Science/Physics/ Relevant Fields of Sciences &Engineering. Limited Seats Available Account Title: IST Professional Development Center Bank: JS Bank Account No: 0001894146 IBAN: PK49JSBL9567000001894146 For Queries Contact: +92-344-2595051 usama_07@yahoo.com
World Space Week is the annual week of celebrating achievements and contributions of Space Science, technology, and its applications. In order to educate young students and the general masses about the bounties of space technology and its applications, United Nations General Assembly has declared 4th-10th October as World Space Week. UN General Assembly selected 4th to commemorate the launch of the first human-made Earth satellite, Sputnik 1, on 4th October 1957, and the signing of the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, on 10th October 1967. World Space Week Association (www.worldspaceweek.org), a non-government, non-profit international organization, coordinates this celebratory week worldwide through National Coordinators appointed in each country. In Pakistan, the event is coordinated by the country’s National Coordinator, the Secretary of National Space Agency of Pakistan, SUPARCO, through Space Education and Awareness Drive (SEAD). The week is celebrated around the globe in more than 96 countries with 8000+ participants worldwide, organized by different space agencies, aerospace companies, schools, planetaria, museums, and astronomy clubs, all synchronized for an impactful public awareness. Institute of Space Technology holds the legacy of celebrating World Space Week in Pakistan since 2005 in collaboration with the National Space Agency of Pakistan, SUPARCO, with the primary goal of promoting space education and awareness among the mass public. IST cherishes the honor of organizing maximum events in Pakistan during WSW every year. The number of events, participating students and schools, has increased exponentially in the last Seventeen years. Following a predefined theme set by World Space Week Association, various space-related activities are planned for space enthusiasts. Every year, World Space Week Association (WSWA) declares a theme to highlight a specific aspect of space. National coordinators then plan and organize events around this theme. The theme for WSW ’22 is “Space & Sustainability”. This theme will cover two main aspects: “achieving sustainability in space”, and “achieving sustainability from space”. The theme is inspired by how sustainability in space relates to how humanity uses space, most pressingly, the orbital area surrounding Earth-itself a finite resource. There is a much greater story to tell in terms of how space exploration and remote Earth observation can help drive change for our own home planet. This includes measuring climate change, identifying pollution on land and at sea, supporting agriculture in developing nations-an endless list. Of the 169 targets that form the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals, 65 directly benefit through Earth observation satellites and related technologies. Achieving the SDGs would be so much harder without the tools and techniques available to scientists through space exploration. Following the theme of Space & Sustainability, NCGSA aims to mitigate career options and raise space awareness among School/College students through space-related activities and competitions. With 100+ modules for students of grades 6th to 12th, participants will be able to participate in a diverse range of fun learning activities. 10 categories covering different domains are designed to include students with different interests and skills. World Space week celebrations will be a learning opportunity- especially for space enthusiasts to pursue a career in space technology. WSW 2022 is planned in two main rounds. The World space week 2022 will hold 100+ modules in 10+ major categories. Dates : Registration: Registration Fee Payment Information Account Title: IST Professional Development Center Account No: 0001894146 or IBAN: PK49JSBL9567000001894146 Bank: JS Bank, Sihala Branch Islamabad, Pakistan. Registration Method: Online/Bank Draft Transfer / Online Deposit Space Ambassadors’ Forum Space Ambassadors’ Forum this year was held online via Zoom on Tuesday, September 13, 2022. View the recording to know more about it. The purpose of the Space Ambassadors Forum is to equip focal persons/space ambassadors of respective schools, colleges & institutes participating in World Space Week 2022 with the requisite tool and guidelines necessary for registration and participation processes. WSW 2022 Championship Title for Institute (Shield and Certificate) WSW 2022 Runner-up for Institute (Certificate) Module Excellence Awards for Winning Participant (Shield and Certificate) Module Runner Up Award for Runner-ups (Certificate) Space Ambassador Award for the Focal Person (Shield and Certificate) Space Ambassador Acknowledgment Award (Certificate) Participation Acknowledgement (Certificate) www.ncgsa.org.pk/wsw worldspaceweekist@gmail.com +92-51-9075799 | +92-335-5342765 www.facebook.com/WSW.IST Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search for training
Note: The challan form generated through this software can only be used if you are submitting your fee within Pakistan. If you are submitting the IBCC fee for Attestation or Equivalence etc from abroad then payment can be made in the following account of IBCC and the receipt may be sent to IBCC along with Application form. The Application will only be processed after the confirmation of payment in IBCC fee account. Swift Code: NBPAPKK02I Title: Inter Boards Coordination Commission Account No. PK61NBPA2164004150551816
Professor / Head of Department () Director (AI & Computer Vision lab - ) Co-PI (Small Satellite Technology & Research Lab - ) I have been associated with Institute of Space Technology (IST), Pakistan since its inception in 2002. Currently I am heading the Electrical Engineering department that offers degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. After completing my PhD from Paris Descartes University France in 2009, I have been involved in various research ventures in the field of Image Processing, Machine Learning and Computer Vision. I am the founder and director of the Artificial Intelligence & Computer Vision (iVision) research lab at IST. I am also one of the founding members of Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society (PPRS) which is an official chapter of IAPR in Pakistan. In addition, I am also the Co-PI of the Satellite Research & Technology Lab under the National Center of GIS & Space Applications. Apart from that, I am associate editor of Journal of Space Technology which is an HEC recognized annual peer-reviewed journal. I am also contributing as reviewer and committee member for various top ranked international journals and conferences. I was given the award of 'Best University Teacher' in Pakistan in January 2016 by the Higher Education Commission.
I feel honoured to have an opportunity to serve as the head of an institution, Sindh textbook board, which is responsible for crafting, articulating, designing and delivering the textbooks and other learning literature to the students of Sindh to explore their cognitive and non -cognitive potential given the unending sources of learning today. the Sindh textbook board is the mother - feeding institution which provides free textbooks and other supplementary material right from pre-primary to class x for all public sector schools of the Sindh province under the initiative of Sindh government in line with objective of millennium development goals. the Sindh textbook board shall be always welcoming to new ideas and suggestions which need to be incorporated, and we shall ensure that the books have knocked the doors, free of cost and without any effort of the students. Free textbook distribution ceremony from class (I to X) for academic session 2018-19 held in Karachi. The event was graced by the presence of honorable Dr. Iqbal Hussain Durrani. Secretary School Education Department, STBB Chairman Agha Shohail Ahmed , Director Schools Karachi Region. Secretary School Education also visited different schools of korangi district. SindhTextbook Board organized a ceremony to start the free textbooks distribution throughout Sindh. The chairman Sindh Textbook Board Agha Sohail Ahmed inaugurated the event. Chairman highlighted its performance and successes in details. He informed the media that the board has published 27,097,751 text books from class (I to X) for academic session 2018-19. Agha Sohail Ahmed Chairman Sindh TextBook Board attended sixth meeting of the Sindh Curriculum Council in Committee Room of the Sindh Assembly. Chairman STBB Agha Sohail Ahmed during Inauguration of the Garden. Copyright © 2024 Sindh Textbook Board Jamshoro. All rights reserved | Design by
The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Textbook Board has been established under NWFP (Now KP) Ordinance No. 1 of 1971. Its mandate is to make arrangements for production and publication of textbooks from Classes I to XII, supplementary reading material relating to textbooks, production of reference and research material, and conduct of research in the field of curricula, textbooks and other reading material. After the adoption and introduction of the new Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Textbooks and Learning Materials (KPTLM) Policy 2017, the role of Textbook Board has become more important as a regulatory authority. The prime objective of the KP Textbook Board is timely availability of quality textbooks to all the students of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (Class I to XII) at minimum Cost. The KP Textbook Board has initiated process for automation of its activities for smooth and active response. It is hoped that computerization of the Board's system will bring a lot of improvement in its functioning. This website is open for everyone for each and every kind of suggestion for the improvement of the textbooks. Quick Links About Government Important Links Explore Us
PK ICUBE-Q satellite will be carried aboard China's Chang'E6 spacecraft, says IST Pakistan is set to embark on a ground-breaking lunar mission, as the country's historic ICUBE-Q satellite prepares for launch on Friday. The satellite will be carried aboard China's Chang'E6 spacecraft, scheduled to depart from Hainan, China, at 1250 PST. According to the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the satellite ICUBE-Q has been designed and developed by IST in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University SJTU and Pakistan’s national space agency SUPARCO. ICUBE-Q orbiter carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. Following successful qualification and testing, ICUBE-Q has now been integrated with the Chang’e6 mission. Chang’e6 is the sixth in a series of China’s lunar exploration missions. The launch activity will be telecast live on the IST website and social media platforms. Chang’6 will touch down on the moon’s far side to collect samples from the surface and return to Earth for research. The mission holds significance for Pakistan as it will also take a Pakistan CubeSat Satellite iCube-Q, developed by IST. CubeSats are miniature satellites typically characterised by their small size and standardised design. They are constructed in a cubic shape, consisting of modular components that adhere to specific size constraints. These satellites often weigh no more than a few kilogrammes and are deployed in space for various purposes. Read more: The primary purpose of cubesats is to facilitate scientific research, technology development, and educational initiatives in space exploration. These satellites are utilised for a wide range of missions, including Earth observations, remote sensing, atmospheric research, communications, astronomy, and technology demonstration. Due to their compact size and relatively low cost compared to traditional satellites, CubeSats offer opportunities for universities, research institutions, and commercial entities to participate in space missions and gather valuable data for scientific advancement and innovation. They serve as platforms for testing new technologies and concepts, enabling access to space for a broader range of users and promoting collaboration within the space community. COMMENTS Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our 118 K This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.
Last date to apply/ complete online admission form for session Fall 2024 is 30-Jun-2024.
Contact Admission Office for password recovery.
Enter your personal details and start journey with us.
30 اپریل ، 2024 پاکستان کا پہلا سیٹلائٹ مشن چاند پر بھیجنے کی تیاریاں مکمل کرلی گئیں۔ جیو نیوز سے گفتگو کرتے ہوئے انسٹی ٹیوٹ آف اسپیس ٹیکنالوجی کی کور کمیٹی کے رکن ڈاکٹر خرم خورشید کا کہنا تھاکہ 3 مئی کو 12 بج کر 50 منٹ پرپاکستان کا پہلا سیٹلائٹ مشن چاند پربھیجا جائے گا۔ انہوں نے کہا کہ یہ مشن چین کے ہینان اسپیس لانچ سائٹ سے خلا میں بھیجا جائے گا، سیٹلائٹ آئی کیوب قمرکی لانچ کو ویب سائٹ سے لائیو ٹیلی کاسٹ کیا جائے گا۔ ان کا کہنا تھاکہ آئی کیوب قمر کا ڈیزائن اور ڈویلپمنٹ چائنا اور سپارکو کے اشتراک سے تیارکیا، چاند کی تصاویر بنانے کیلئے آئی کیوب قمر میں دو کیمرےنصب ہیں۔ ڈاکٹرخرم خورشید کے مطابق پاکستان کا سیٹلائٹ مشن چاند کے مدارکے چکر کاٹے گا اور یہ مشن سے لی جانے والی تصاویر تحقیقی مقاصد میں کام آئیں گی۔ انہوں نے بتایاکہ چین کا سیٹلائٹ مشن چاند پر لینڈ کرے گا اور یہ مشن چاند کی مٹی جمع کرے گا۔
Al Khwarizmi Scholarships Check Admission Status Now Merit List Generated for MS Programs

Allama Iqbal Open University, the largest university of Asia in distance education, which primarily focuses on the educational needs of masses by providing quality education at their doorsteps all over the country and by blurring spatial and temporal boundaries. Currently, the university offers unique educational opportunities to a huge proportion of 1 million students in a diverse and dynamic range of programs starting from Matriculation to the PhD level. The University exclusively focuses on enhancing female literacy ratio in the country so that women can perform their vital role in the process of national progress and development. The university takes same special initiatives for the underprivileged and marginalized segments of the society not only for their economic empowerment but also for poverty alleviation in the country. The main objectives of the University as enunciated in the Act are as under: The Allama Iqbal Open University was established in May, 1974, with the main objectives of providing educational opportunities to masses and to those who cannot leave their homes and jobs. During all these past years, the University has more than fulfilled this promise.
Prof. Nazar Hussain Ch. It has been a great honour for me to become head of an institution that follows a completely transparent and computerized examination system by the grace of Allah Almighty. All the departments are well aware of their duties. The dedication and determination of both technical and non-technical staff is quite impressive. The knowledge based understanding of the employees regarding rules and regulations of examination is excellent. My main objective is to preserve and prosper the on going system of the organization in such a way that it becomes more strengthened and modernized. While on the other side I have plans to facilitate people as much as possible keeping the sanctity of the rules making more positive changes in the system. I am also very keen to improve the standard of education and provide comfortable environment for everyone who likes to get the light of education. I am sure that the new generation is quite energetic and enthusiastic and if given positive directions they can make us feel proud. I feel that the talented people must be encouraged and appreciated and talent must get its reward. I have also invited the experienced technical professionals of my organization to come and share their ideas to find new paradigms for betterment of education and I am also very willing to convert any positive idea into reality by the grace of Allah Almighty. Stay Up to Date With Whats Happening Copyright © 2011 - All Rights Reserved -
،تصویر کا ذریعہ ICUBE-Q team چاند کے مدار پر بھیجے جانے والے پاکستان کے پہلے سیٹلائٹ ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ سے پہلی تصاویر موصول ہو گئی ہیں۔ چینی خلائی مرکز نے ایک تقریب میں آئی کیوب قمر کی تصویر پاکستانی سفیر کے حوالے کی۔ یہ تصاویر چاند کے مدار میں چھوٹے سیٹلائٹس کی تلاش کا آغاز ہے۔ یہ مصنوعی سیارہ چین کے خلائی راکٹ چینگ ای سکس کی مدد سے تین مئی کو چاند کی جانب روانہ کیا گیا تھا اور اس سے پاکستان چاند کے مدار میں سیٹلائٹ بھیجنے والا چھٹا ملک بن گیا تھا۔ پاکستان کا سیٹلائٹ ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ چین کے خلائی مشن کے ساتھ دو روز قبل چاند کے مدار میں داخل ہوا تھا اور آج جمعہ کے روز سپارکو کو تصاویر موصول ہوئی ہیں۔ اس تحریر میں ایسا مواد ہے جو Twitter کی جانب سے دیا گیا ہے۔ کسی بھی چیز کے لوڈ ہونے سے قبل ہم آپ سے اجازت چاہتے ہیں کیونکہ یہ ممکن ہے کہ وہ کوئی مخصوص کوکیز یا ٹیکنالوجیز کا استعمال کر رہے ہوں۔ آپ اسے تسلیم کرنے سے پہلے Twitter اور پڑھنا چاہیں گے۔ اس مواد کو دیکھنے کے لیے ’تسلیم کریں، جاری رکھیں‘ پر کلک کریں۔ Twitter پوسٹ کا اختتام, 1 پاکستان کا سیٹلائٹ مشن تین سے چھ ماہ تک چاند کے مدار میں گردش کرے گا اوراس دوران چاند کی سطح کی تصاویر لے گا۔ 'آئی کیوب قمر' مشن کی ٹیم کے رکن ڈاکٹر خرم خورشید نے بی بی سی کو بتایا کہ یہ مصنوعی سیارہ آٹھ مئی کو پاکستانی وقت کے مطابق دوپہر ایک بج کر 14 منٹ پر چاند کے مدار میں داخل ہوا اور ابتدائی رپورٹس کے مطابق اس کے تمام کنٹرولز اور دیگر نظام ٹھیک کام کر رہے ہیں۔ ڈاکٹر خرم کے مطابق جائزے کا یہ عمل مزید چند دن جاری رہے گا جس کے بعد ہی یہ مصنوعی سیارہ اپنا کام شروع کرے گا۔ تین مئی کو اس مصنوعی سیارے کی کامیاب روانگی کے بعد پاکستان کے وزیراعظم شہبازشریف نے قوم اور سائنسدانوں کو مبارکباد دیتے ہوئے کہا تھا کہ ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ سیٹلائٹ خلا میں پاکستان کا پہلا قدم ہے۔ ان کا کہنا ہے کہ جوہری میدان کی طرح اس میدان میں بھی ہمارے سائنسدان، انجینیئرز اور ہنرمند اپنی صلاحیتوں کا لوہا منوا رہے ہیں۔ وزیراعظم نے انسٹیٹیوٹ آف سپیس ٹیکنالوجی کی کور کمیٹی، اس کے رکن ڈاکٹر خرم خورشید، سپارکو سمیت تمام ٹیم خاص طور پر پراجیکٹ میں حصہ لینے والے طالب علموں کوخراج تحسین پیش کیا۔ اس موقع پر ان کا کہنا تھا کہ آٹھ ممالک میں سے صرف پاکستان کے منصوبے کو قبول کیا جانا ہمارے سائنسدانوں اور ماہرین کی قابلیت کا اعتراف ہے اور یہ تکنیکی ترقی کے سفر کا بہت تاریخی لمحہ ہے، اس اہم کامیابی سے پاکستان خلا کے بامقصد استعمال کے نئے دور میں داخل ہو گیا۔ ان کا کہنا تھا کہ یہ کامیابی سیٹلائٹ کمیونیکیشن کے شعبے میں پاکستان کی صلاحیتوں کو بڑھائے گی، سائنسی تحقیق، اقتصادی ترقی اور قومی سلامتی کے لیے نئے مواقع بھی پیدا کرے گی۔ ،تصویر کا ذریعہIST/Getty Images پاکستان کے دارالحکومت اسلام آباد میں واقع انسٹیٹیوٹ آف سپیس ٹیکنالوجی (آئی ایس ٹی) سے منسلک پروفیسر نے جب گذشتہ سال ایک عالمی ادارے ’ایپسکو‘ کو یہ تجویز بھیجی کہ پاکستان چاند کے مدار تک ایک سیٹلائٹ بھیجے گا تو غالباً ان کے ادارے کے افراد کو زیادہ امید نہیں تھی کہ اس تجویز کا جواب انھیں مثبت انداز میں اور جلد ہی موصول ہو گا۔ اب اس تجویز کا نتیجہ اس شکل میں نکلا کہ پاکستان چین کی مدد سے اُن ممالک کی فہرست میں شامل ہو سکتا ہے جو چاند کے مدار تک اپنے سیٹلائٹ بھجوا چکے ہیں۔ مگر ایک پروپوزل بھجوانے کے خیال سے یہ منصوبہ کیسے شروع ہوا؟ اس کی تکمیل کے لیے پاکستانی سائنسدانوں نے نہایت کم مدت میں سیٹلائٹ کیسے تیار کیا اور اس کے فوائد کیا ہوں گے؟ اس کہانی کی ابتدا سنہ 2022 میں اس وقت ہوئی جب چینی نیشنل سپیس ایجنسی (سی این ایس اے) نے ایشیا پیسیفک سپیس کارپوریشن آرگنائزیشن کے ذریعے اپنے رکن ممالک کو چاند کے مدار تک مفت پہنچنے کا ایک منفرد موقع فراہم کیا۔ ایشیا پیسیفک سپیس کارپوریشن آرگنائزیشن (ایپسکو) سنہ 2008 میں قائم کی گئی تھی جس کا مقصد اس خطے میں خلائی تحقیق کو فروغ دینا تھا۔ ایپسکو کے رکن ممالک میں پاکستان، بنگلہ دیش، چین، ایران، پیرو، جنوبی کوریا، تھائی لینڈ اور ترکی شامل ہیں۔ اس تحریر میں ایسا مواد ہے جو Twitter کی جانب سے دیا گیا ہے۔ کسی بھی چیز کے لوڈ ہونے سے قبل ہم آپ سے اجازت چاہتے ہیں کیونکہ یہ ممکن ہے کہ وہ کوئی مخصوص کوکیز یا ٹیکنالوجیز کا استعمال کر رہے ہوں۔ آپ اسے تسلیم کرنے سے پہلے Twitter اور پڑھنا چاہیں گے۔ اس مواد کو دیکھنے کے لیے ’تسلیم کریں، جاری رکھیں‘ پر کلک کریں۔ Twitter پوسٹ کا اختتام, 2 اسلام آباد کے انسٹیٹیوٹ آف سپیس ٹیکنالوجی (آئی ایس ٹی) کی جانب سے ایک پروپوزل (تجویز) تیار کر کے ایپسکو کو بھجوایا گیا جو منظور کر لیا گیا اور پھر پاکستان میں خلائی تحقیق کے ادارے سپارکو کی معاونت کے ساتھ آئی ایس ٹی کی ایک ٹیم نے اس سیٹلائٹ پر کام شروع کیا جس میں مختلف شعبوں کے طلبا بھی شامل تھے۔ یوں لگ بھگ دو سال کی محنت کے بعد سیٹلائٹ ’آئی کیوب قمر‘ کو مکمل کیا جا سکا۔ سٹیٹسٹا کے لیے کام کرنے والی کے مطابق دنیا کے چھ ممالک کی خلائی ایجنسیاں جن میں امریکہ، سابقہ سوویت یونین (موجودہ روس)، چین، جاپان، انڈیا اور یورپی یونین شامل ہیں نے چاند کے مدار میں اور چاند پر یا اس کے قریب اپنے مشن بھیجے ہیں۔ ان کے علاوہ جنوبی کوریا، لگزم برگ اور اٹلی امریکی اور چینی راکٹوں کے سہارے چاند کے مدار تک جا چکے ہیں اور اب پاکستان بھی اس فہرست میں شامل ہو گیا ہے۔ آئیے جانتے ہیں کہ اس مشن میں پاکستان کی جانب سے بھیجے جانے والی سیٹلائٹ کیسے کام کرے گی، اس میں کیا کچھ نصب ہے اور اسے بنانے والی ٹیم کو اس کی تیاری میں کن چیلنجز کا سامنا رہا؟ ،تصویر کا ذریعہIST/Getty Images یہ نام ڈاکٹر خرم کی جانب سے تجویز کیا گیا تھا۔ کیونکہ یہ مشن چاند کی جانب جا رہا ہے اس لیے اس میں ’قمر‘ یعنی چاند موجود ہے۔ آئی کیوب اس لیے کیونکہ آئی ایس ٹی میں موجود سمال سیٹلائٹ پروگرام کا نام ’آئی کیوب‘ ہے اور اس کے تحت انسٹیٹیوٹ کی جانب سے سنہ 2013 میں پہلی سیٹلائٹ ’آئی کیوب ون‘ کے نام سے لانچ کی گئی تھی۔ انسٹی ٹیوٹ آف سپیس ٹیکنالوجی میں آئی کیوب کیو پر کام کرنے والی ٹیم کے رُکن پروفیسر ڈاکٹر خُرم خورشید نے بی بی سی سے بات کرتے ہوئے کہا کہ ’چین کی شنگھائی یونیورسٹی اور پاکستان نیشنل سپسیس ایجنسی سپارکو کے تعاون کے ساتھ اس سیٹلائٹ کا حتمی ڈھانچہ بنایا گیا ہے۔‘ اُن کا مزید کہنا تھا کہ ’آئی کیوب کیو‘ دو آپٹیکل کیمروں سے لیس ہے جو چاند کی سطح کی تصاویر لینے کے لیے استعمال ہوتے ہیں۔‘ ٹیسٹنگ اور قابلیت کے مرحلے سے کامیابی سے گزرنے کے بعد ’آئی کیوب کیو‘ کو چین کے ’چینگ 6‘ مشن کے ساتھ منسلک کر دیا جائے گا۔ واضح رہے کہ ’چینگ 6‘ چین کی جانب سے چاند کے مشن کے سلسلے کا چھٹا مشن ہے۔ چین کے ’چینگ 6‘ کے مشن کا مقصد چاند کی سطح سے نمونے اکھٹا کرنا ہے اور ان نمونوں کو پھر زمین پر واپس لانا ہے، جہاں سائنسدان چاند کی ساخت، تاریخ اور تشکیل کے بارے میں مزید جاننے کے لیے تحقیق کریں گے۔ آئی ایس ٹی کی ویب سائٹ پر موجود معلومات کے مطابق ۔ ایک تو کیوب سیٹ جس کے بارے میں آپ کو ہم آگے چل کر بتائیں گے، سیپریشن میکنزم یعنی چینگ 6 سے آئی کیوب قمر کے علیحدہ ہونے کا میکنزم، اور ماؤنٹنگ بریکٹ۔ اس میں موجود دو آپٹیکل کیمروں کے علاوہ 12 وولٹ کی بیٹری اور دو سولر پینلز بھی نصب کیے گئے ہیں اور اس کی ّڈیزائن لائف تین ماہ ہے۔ اس کی حرکت کو تین ایکسز کے ذریعے کنٹرول کیا جائے گا۔ ری ایکشن وہیل، سٹار سینسر اور سن سینسر کے ذریعے۔ کمیونیکیشن کے لیے بھی اس میں نظام نصب کیا گیا ہے اور اس کا ڈیٹا ٹرانسفر ریٹ 1 کلو بائٹ فی سیکنڈ ہو گا۔ ،تصویر کا ذریعہCourtesy IST ڈاکٹر خرم کی ٹیم کے پاس اس سیٹلائٹ کو بنانے کے لیے وقت کم تھا اور انھیں اس میں استعمال ہونے والے پرزے باہر سے منگوانے تھے جن کی پاکستان آمد میں انھیں کچھ تاخیر کا سامنا بھی کرنا پڑا۔ ڈاکٹر خرم کہتے ہیں کہ ’کیونکہ وقت کم تھا اس لیے ہمیں ہر چیز ایک ساتھ اور بہت محنت کے ساتھ کرنی پڑ رہی تھی۔‘ اس کے علاوہ آئی ایس ٹی کے مختلف انجینیئرنگ کے شعبوں جیسے الیکٹریکل، میٹیریئل سائنس، ایوی آنکس، ایرو سپیس، میکینکل انجینیئرنگ اور کمپیوٹر سائنسز کے طلبا بھی اس پراجیکٹ میں شریک تھے۔ پروفیسر ڈاکٹر خُرم خورشید نے بتایا کہ ’یہ مشن پاکستان اور پاکستانی طلبا کے لیے انتہائی اہمیت کا حامل ہے کہ جو اس فیلڈ میں آگے بڑھنا چاہتے ہیں۔‘ ڈاکٹر خرم کہتے ہیں کہ پاکستان میں یوں تو سپارکو اپنی کاوشوں کو جاری رکھے ہوئے ہے مگر اس کے باوجود اس فیلڈ میں آنے والے طلبا کو خاص پذیرائی نہیں ملتی اور پاکستان میں اُن کے لیے مواقع بہت محدود ہیں۔‘ ڈاکٹر خرم کے مطابق ’آئی ایس ٹی کی طرف سے تیار کردہ کیوب سیٹس کیوبک شکل میں بنائے گئے ہیں اور ان پر ان کی چھوٹی جسامت کی وجہ کم لاگت آتی ہے جو پاکستان جیسے ترقی پذیر مُمالک کے لیے بوجھ نہیں۔‘ ان کا مزید کہنا ہے ’ان سیٹلائٹس کا وزن اکثر چند کلو گرام سے زیادہ نہیں ہوتا جیسا کہ ’آئی کیوب کیو‘ کا وزن بھی چھ کلو گرام کے قریب ہے۔‘ ’آئی کیوب کیو‘ کو خلا میں بھیجنے کے مقصد سے متعلق بات کرتے ہوئے ڈاکٹر خرم کا کہنا تھا کہ ’اس کی مدد سے ہم سائنسی تحقیق، تکنیکی ترقی اور خلائی تحقیق سے متعلق تعلیمی منصوبوں میں آگے بڑھ سکیں گے اور نہ صرف یہ بلکہ پاکستان کے پاس تحقیق کے لیے اپنی سیٹلائٹ سے لی جانے والی چاند کی تصاویر ہوں گیں۔‘ ،تصویر کا ذریعہCourtesy IST مشیگن سٹیٹ یونیورسٹی میں شعبہ فزکس اور فلکیات سے منسلک اسسٹنٹ پروفیسر مہر النسا نے بی بی سی کے عمیر سلیمی سے بات کرتے ہوئے کہا کہ ’کیوب سیٹ‘ دراصل چھوٹی سیٹلائٹ ہوتی ہے جس کا وزن چند کلو گرام کے قریب ہوتا ہے۔ اس میں مختلف سینسر اور کیمرے نصب ہوتے ہیں اور یہ خلا میں جا کر ڈیٹا جمع کرتی ہے۔ انھوں نے بتایا کہ چاند کے مدار میں چکر لگانے والے کیوب سیٹ ’تصاویر لے سکتے ہیں یا دیگر سگنل ریکارڈ کر کے زمین پر واپس بھیج سکتے ہیں۔‘ ان کا کہنا ہے کہ یہ ٹیکنالوجی قدرے سستی ہے۔ پروفیسر مہر النسا کے مطابق اس سے پاکستانی محققین اور طلبہ سپیس سائنس میں چینی ماہرین کے ساتھ مل کر کام کر سکتے ہیں۔ تاہم ان کا کہنا ہے کہ خلائی تحقیق میں دوسرے ملکوں کے ساتھ مل کر کام کرنا ایک ’بیبی سٹیپ‘ (ابتدائی قدم) ضرور ہے تاہم ’اپنے اداروں میں منصوبہ بندی اور سرمایہ کاری کا طویل مدتی متبادل نہیں۔‘ ’لوگوں کو یہ یقین دلانے کی ضرورت ہے کہ سائنس اور ٹیکنالوجی میں سرمایہ کاری ضروری ہے، اور یہ کہ محدود وسائل کے باوجود ہم خلائی تحقیق کر سکتے ہیں۔‘ ادھر سپارکو سے منسلک ایک ماہر نے بی بی سی سے بات کرتے ہوئے کہا کہ ’آئی کیوب کیو کے مشن کا دورانیہ تین ماہ کا ہے اور اس دوران یہ خلا میں موسمیاتی تبدیلیوں کے ساتھ ساتھ چاند کی تصاویر مرکز یعنی انسٹیٹیوٹ آف سپیس ٹیکنالوجی کو بھیجتا رہے گا۔‘ اُن کا مزید کہنا تھا ’پاکستان میں اس شعبے میں آنے والے نوجوانوں کے لیے اس طرح کے منصوبوں کی بہت اہمیت ہے۔ ’ہمارے یہی چھوٹے چھوٹے قدم ہمیں کل (خلائی تحقیق میں) ایک بڑی کامیابی تک لے جائیں گے۔‘ ،تصویر کا ذریعہIST ڈاکٹر خرم کہ کہنا ہے کہ چاند پر کوئی بھی مشن یا سیٹلائٹ بھیجنا بہت ہی زیادہ مہنگا کام ہے، حتیٰ کے زمین کے گرد یا مدار میں بھی اگر کوئی سیارہ بھیجا جائے تو اُس کے لیے کثیر سرمایہ درکار ہوتا ہے۔‘ اُن کا کہنا ہے کہ پاکستان کے لیے بہت بڑی بات ہے کہ چین کی جانب سے اُسے ’آئی کیوب کیو‘ کے لانچ کے لیے معاونت فراہم کی جا رہی ہے، ورنہ ایک خلائی مشن کو روانہ کرنے کے لیے کثیر سرمائے کی ضرورت ہوتی ہے جس کا متحمل پاکستان نہیں ہو سکتا۔‘ اس سیٹلائٹ کو بنانے کے لیے آنے والی لاگت کے بارے میں سرکاری سطح پر نہیں بتایا گیا تاہم ڈاکٹر خرم کا کہنا ہے کہ کُل لاگت کا تخمینہ لگانا مشکل ہے کیونکہ کسی سیٹلائٹ کو لانچ کرنے میں زیادہ خرچ آتا ہے اور پاکستان کے لیے چین کے باعث یہ عمل مفت ہو گیا۔ انھوں نے کہا کہ ’زمین کے مدار میں بھی اگر سیٹلائٹ کو لانچ کیا جائے تو اس میں بھی بہت زیادہ لاگت آتی ہے اور ڈیپ سپیس مشن پر بہت زیادہ لاگت آتی ہے۔ ہمیں صرف سیٹلائٹ بنانے کی لاگت اٹھانا پڑی۔‘ ،تصویر کا ذریعہSERENDIP PRODUCTIONS یاد رہے کہ سنہ 1962پاکستانی سائنسدانوں نے پہلا موسمیاتی راکٹ رہبر اول خلا میں روانہ کیا تھا۔ اس مشن کی سربراہی پاکستان کے پہلے نوبیل انعام یافتہ ڈاکٹر عبدالسلام نے کی تھی۔ تاہم اس ٹیم اور پراجیکٹ کے سربراہ ڈاکٹر طارق مصطفیٰ نے سنہ 2021 میں بی بی سی سے بات کرتے ہوئے پاکستان کے اس خلائی دوڑ میں پیچھے رہ جانے کی وجہ بیان کی تھی۔ پاکستان نے چین کی مدد سے کئی سیٹلائٹس لانچ کیں۔ تو ایک ایسا ملک جو 1962 میں خود اپنا راکٹ لانچ کر رہا تھا، اب سیٹلائٹس لانچ کرنے کے لیے چین پر منحصر کیوں ہے جبکہ پڑوسی ملک انڈیا چاند اور مریخ تک اپنے خلائی مشنز بھیج رہا ہے۔ اس سوال کے جواب میں ڈاکٹر طارق مصطفیٰ نے بی بی سی سے بات کرتے ہوئے کہا تھا کہ ’سپارکو کو اتنے وسائل نہیں دیے گئے اور پاکستان کی توجہ مختلف وجوہات کی بنا پر دفاعی جانب زیادہ رہی۔‘ خود ڈاکٹر طارق مصطفیٰ بھی سیکریٹری دفاعی پیداوار ڈویژن رہ چکے ہیں اور 1994 میں حکومتِ پاکستان سے ریٹائر ہوئے۔ وہ کہتے ہیں کہ ’پاکستان اس خلائی دوڑ میں ایسے ہی موقع کا فائدہ اٹھا کر شامل ہو گیا تھا لیکن ملک کے پاس اس حوالے سے ویژن نہیں تھا کہ پاکستان نے بالائی فضا کے بعد باقاعدہ خلا میں بھی قدم رکھنے ہیں۔‘ وہ کہتے ہیں کہ ’انڈیا کے پاس اس حوالے سے کہیں زیادہ مالی وسائل اور سائنسی دماغ اور سہولیات موجود تھیں جس کی بنا پر وہ آج اس جگہ تک جا پہنچے ہیں۔‘
Mega Events, Students Results Declaration, Medal Award Ceremony. Students are liable to submit their Enrolment form at the Web Portal of BIEK by following the instructions Student must signup first with unique ID and then enter in the enrolment system for enrolment process. Please go through the instruction before proceeding for smooth processing Instiutions/Colleges are liable to follow the above instructions and submit their student forms at BIEK. It is to inform that the Board has privilege and moving towards to the digitization in order to facilitate students to submit their enrolment form online It is to inform that TCS now become our official partner, now all forms of the Board except examination forms shall be submitted along with fee at TCS Outlets or desks. This facility is available in very economical amount and you dont need to come at BIEK. DOWNLOAD ALL TYPE OF FORMS For the Convenience of Candidates, all types of forms are available. Announcement of Annual Result HSC Part II 2023. I heartily felicitate Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon, Chairman BIE Karachi, under whose dynamic and dedicated leadership the Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has made remarkable progress and distinguished itself as an organization excelling in integrity, dexterity and commitment to the cause of promoting merit in the conduct of HSSC Exams. Well done! Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon! I wish you Godspeed in al your target-oriented pursuits and lofty goals. I heartily felicitate Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon, Chairman BIE Karachi, under whose dynamic and dedicated leadership the Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has made remarkable progress and distinguished itself as an organization excelling in integrity, dexterity and commitment to the cause of promoting merit in the conduct of HSSC Exams. Well done! Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon! I wish you Godspeed in al your target-oriented pursuits and lofty goals. I heartily felicitate Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon, Chairman BIE Karachi, under whose dynamic and dedicated leadership the Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has made remarkable progress and distinguished itself as an organization excelling in integrity, dexterity and commitment to the cause of promoting merit in the conduct of HSSC Exams. Well done! Prof. Nasim Ahmed Memon! I wish you Godspeed in al your target-oriented pursuits and lofty goals. The Board has announced to get any type of form Online, from official website of the Board http://www.biek.edu.pk Get or Model Paper MODEL PAPER uploaded for convience to candidate for understanding of new Paper Pattern Since 2017 Now you can submit any type of fee at at any UBL Branch or TCS Outlets of Karachi City and there is no need to come Board Physically. 2022 Model Papers are also available, please download Board of Interemdiate Education Karachi has introduced a unique and advanced vertificaiton system for any type of testimonial/documents, which is provided from the Board. The system introduces a Verification Sticker, where each Sticker has is unique and Secure ID on it and it has been printed from Pakistan Printing Press on Specific Paper and code. So if any Entity found the verification document from Jan 2019 without sticker from BIEK, is might be fraud or fordged documents Board of Intermediate Education Karachi is now developed an One Pager Form, which can be downloaded and easy to get. Each Specific Form has showing its requirements of documents and Fee structure as well. The different forms are for different purpose. Now Examinations, Enrolments, Registrations, and all type of Forms with Faculties/Group are available of all type of Students or candidates Board of Intermediate Education Karachi has introduced a Online Banking System, Now you can submit the fee at any UBL Branch in Karachi City, where the list of Banks is also mentioned above, the service will facilitate the candidate to submit any type of fee at their nearest Bank of UBL (United Bank Limited). The Voucher may also get from our Website, So there is no need to go bank and filled the voucher, you may just download and filled and submit it on the nearest bank of UBL (United Bank Limited) Board of Intermediate Education IT department has devised the International pattern of Marksheet, Migration Certificate, Provisional Certificate and Final Certificate. So according to International Standards the documents are updated and completed the required International Requirements of other International Bodies, This all changes and updation are made from the approval of Competent Authorities. Board of Intermediate Education Karachi is one Board, which is working according to the International Criteria. Every year conducting about 375,000 candidates Examination!, Assessments & Results Meeting regarding overall working and performance of the Boards, chaired by Mr. Khalid Haider Shah, Secretary Universities and Boards Department, Govt. of Sindh on 4th September 2023. Present on this occasion were Chairman, Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi and other Chairmen of Sindh Educational Boards. Honorable Chairman BIEK Mr. Saleem Rajput conducting meeting with SSEIP Project People and discussing about the reforms of Examination system Governor of Sindh, Mr. Kamran Tessori visited Board of Intermediate, Karachi and meet the senior officers of the Board. Mr. Saleem Rajput (Chairman) give the honor and give the presentation to Governer for information regarding examination system as well the complete procedure of result development and maintaining its secrecy and transparency. Governer of Sindh, Mr. Kamran Tessori visited Board of Intermediate, Karachi and meet the senior officers of the Board. Mr. Saleem Rajput (Chairman) give the honor and give the presentation to Governer for information regarding examination system as well the complete procedure of result development and maintaining its secrecy and transparency. Governer of Sindh, Mr. Kamran Tessori visited Board of Intermediate, Karachi and meet the senior officers of the Board. Mr. Saleem Rajput (Chairman) give the honor and give the presentation to Governer for information regarding examination system as well the complete procedure of result development and maintaining its secrecy and transparency. A team of Gilgit Baltistan visited Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi comprises with Chairman, Director Education Schools and Colleges along with Ministers to understand the system of Examination Conduction of BIEK. Head of IT, M. Shaheer Waqar, Zareena Rashid Dy. Controller Breif about the System under the supervision of Honorable Chairman Mr. Saleem Rajput. The Team of Gilgit Baltistan grateful to Chairman and other officers of the Board. A team of Gilgit Baltistan visited Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi comprises with Chairman, Director Education Schools and Colleges along with Ministers to understand the system of Examination Conduction of BIEK. Head of IT, M. Shaheer Waqar, Zareena Rashid Dy. Controller Breif about the System under the supervision of Honorable Chairman Mr. Saleem Rajput. The Team of Gilgit Baltistan grateful to Chairman and other officers of the Board. 9221-99260213 © 2024 Board of Intermediate Education Karachi - Pakistan. All rights reserved. Board of Intermediate Education Karachi On 8 January 1962, the then West Pakistan government promulgated an ordinance known as “West Pakistan Board of Intermediate and secondary education Karachi Ordinance number III of 1962”. By this ordinance, designation of the President of the Board was changed as Chairman and Higher Secondary Education, previously known as Intermediate Education, was transferred from the University to the Board to implement the recommendations of the commission. professor Qaiser Hussain Khan Bakhtiari president of the Board of the secondary education was appointed as first Chairman of the board intermediate and secondary education Karachi. He took over the charge of Higher Secondary Education from Dr. Ishtiaq Hussain Qureshi, then Vice-Chancellor of the University of Karachi, on 2nd November 1961.
Welcome To BISE ABBOTTABAD Started Online Registration/Enrolment BISE Abbottabad came into being as a result of the break-up of Peshawar Board in 1990 under the North West Frontier Province Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Act 1990. It is working in its own building on Murree Road , Abbottabad. Due to increase in work load on matric section, the conduct section has been divided into two separate sections. Conduct 1 to deal with matric and conduct 2 to deal with intermediate. A printing section has also been created for printing of question papers. ..... ..... ... 2024 © All Rights Reserved. | Develop by
Chairman Message Chairman The Board of Intermediate and secondary Education, Bannu was established w.e.f. 01-7-1990 as a result of bifurcation of BISE, Peshawar & have been functioning since then according to the NWFP Ordinance/Act 1990. The Board is responsible for control, organization and regulation of education of more than 700 educational institutions in public as well as private sector.
For Online Registration www.stem.edu.pk/registration For Online Registration www.stem.edu.pk/registration Over 700 public colleges across Punjab will be using Online College Admissions System (OCAS) for processing intermediate admissions applications for the year 2019-20 for Over 700 public colleges across Punjab will be using Online College Admissions System (OCAS) for processing intermediate admissions applications for the year 2019-20 for The importance of education and technology in the development, progress and prosperity of a nation cannot be denied. Father of nation Muhammad Ali Jinnah once said “Without education it is complete darkness, and with education it is light”...
Welcome to BISE Dera Ismail Khan BISE Dera Ismail Khan came into being in 2006. It is working in a building located on River Road , Dera Ismail Khan. The Examination conduct section consists of two separate sections. Matric Section to deal with matric exams and Intermediate Section to deal with intermediate exams. A printing section has also been created for printing of question papers. Computer Cell deals all data management activities. The Board is governed by a Calendar based on KPK, BISE Act 1990. The act along with regulations and rules provide a complete compendium of instructions for running the Board. Within the parameters laid down by this act, the Board makes rules and regulations for its running. In addition the Controlling Authority also has the powers to provide directions to the Board to regulate any activity. The jurisdiction of the Board consists of: 1: District Dera Ismail Khan and its FATA Regions. 2: District Tank and its FATA Regions. 3: South Waziristan Agency (S.W.A) Institutions including: a. Government schools, including Higher Secondary Schools and colleges, Tehsil-wise, both male and female. b. Private Schools, male and female, Tehsil-wise. c. Private Colleges, male and female, Tehsil-wise. All students of 9th and 11th class are required to be enroled/ registered with the Board. The student's strength at matriculate level is almost 40,000 and at Intermediate level is more than 25,000. Date-Sheet SSC Annual-I 2024. Practical Examiners SSC Annual-I 2024. Roll No Slips SSC Annual-I 2024. Press Release regarding defaulter institutions. Fee Notification HSSC Annual-I 2024. Fee Notification SSC Annual-I 2024. Tender Notice 2023-24. Model Papers Class-10th SLO based. Model Papers Class-9th SLO based.
The main objective of the Board is to hold and conduct all examinations pertaining to Secondary School Certificate, Intermediate, Classical Languages and such other examinations as may be assigned by the Controlling Authority / Government of Punjab. Ms. Silwat Saeed (PAS) Commissioner, Faisalabad. Promotion and development of the academic environment and educational culture are our core National aspirations. Allied outcomes of this vision include human resource development, nurturing and promotion of talent, and an overall societal uplift. Evaluation system is key indicator that hints upon the cumulative output of educational endeavors. Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Faisalabad is committed to deliver the targeted outcome through putting integrity, justice, inclusivity and fair play into practice throughout its operating procedure. Right from its inception, this body is striving for the promotion of educational norms through provision of high quality service delivery and erudite grooming of the curricular and co-curricular potential of the students by sticking to its statuary framework and professional obligations. On behalf of all my working partners, I affirm a strong commitment to our assigned goals and objectives. Copyright © 2024 -
Online Admission 9th,10th,11th and 12th links given below: Online Registration (9th and 11th) and Affiliated Institutions links given below: Online Marking and Conduct System links given below: Supervisory Staff Attendance System links are given below: Our mission is to contribute towards progressive Education system in line with National Objectives at Secondary and Higher Secondary (Intermediate) levels, bringing it at par with International standards. It is our endeavour to provide a fair, transparent and efficient examination system with a futuristic vision under the control of Higher Education Department, Government of the Punjab and in collaboration with all the other Boards of Education.
It gives me an immense pleasure to learn that the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad has re-launched its website which is an informative as well as interactive. The Board should not only conduct the examination at school and college levels but it should take a lead role in education reforms for improving quality of education. Being an alumni of the Board and now its Controlling Authority I feel proud that it has significantly contributed to promoting quailty of education in the province but some how it could not maintain its standard in present time. It gives me immense pleasure to learn that the Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Hyderabad will be launching its website very soon which will provide relevant information to the concerned stakeholder about the Board activities. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate Prof. Dr. Muhammad Memon, Chairman, Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Hyderabad , I am pleased to hear that the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad has revised its website for re-launching, which is an informative and interactive. This is one of the oldest Boards which has produced a large number of its secondary and higher secondary education graduates who have been working in various fields with a greater sense of achievement.with a pace of time there has been some deterioration in quality of examination which has badly affected overall quality of education in the province. The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad is one of the oldest boards in Sindh and it has now entered the twenty-first century which demands promotion of critical thinking skills, creativity, problem-solving skills and information technology literacy. Since its establishment the Board has maintained its transparency and fairness to a great extent in the Secondary , To be a 'Centre of Excellence' in examination and assessment at various levels integrated with technology and informed by research for raising education standard in order to prepare our young generation to serve the nation and compete globally. To conduct fair, transparent and authentic Secondary School Certificate (SSC), Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and other examinations for assessing student learning outcomes which are valued by higher education institutions in and outside the country. Copyright 2017 BISEH, Website Managed by I.T Department BISEH Tender | | | | Model Papers ||| - -
BISE Kohat came into being on 19 January 2002 with the appointment of Brig (Retd) Talat Imtiaz Naqvi as the Founder Chairman. The Board started functioning in temporary offices in KDA Kohat. Simultaneously, 50 kanal land was procured on Indus Highway, adjacent to Kohat University of Science & Technology. The master plan and detailed drawings of the new Board Complex were approved by Lt Gen (Retd) Syed Iftikhar Hussain Shah, Governor Khyber Pakhtunkhwa/Controlling Authority in September 2002 and construction of the new complex commenced on 1 November 2002. The Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Kohat, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa emerged on the vista of educational spectra to nurture the challenging demands of 21st century which is yearning for the packing of mechanical and rote learning and to replace it with the conceptual clarity and critical thinking of the students, the future builders of the nation. The utilization of advanced technology is the cry of the day and the challenges of modern pedagogies and assessment and evaluation from paper setting to conduction of examination at SSC and HSSC levels are deaf and dumb without the ample application of val... ChairmanBISE Kohat Khyber Pakhtunkhwa The Jurisdiction of BISE Kohat includes the following Districts and Newly Merged Districts (NMDs) :- BISE Kohat has established its Camp Offices for all the above areas as per following details: - One day seminar on SLO Based Assessment arranged by Afaq Publishers in collaboration with BISE Kohat
Click the link given below for "BISE Lahore" Official WhatsApp Channel Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Lahore. Dear Esteemed Students, Parents, and Teachers, I am highly delighted to extend my heartfelt welcome to you all. At the BISE Lahore, we are committed to ensuring the highest standards in education. Our unwavering dedication to the seamless conduct of Secondary and Higher Secondary School Examinations guarantees not only timely but also transparent results. Understanding the importance of swift academic services, we have implemented a rapid student support system. Furthermore, our state-of-the-art automated online fast-tracking system is designed to enhance efficiency, ensuring a smooth academic journey for every student. Together, let us forge a path of excellence in education. Transparent evaluation is our priority. Warm regards, Choudhry Muhammad Ali Randhawa Chairman Stay up to date with what's happening... Copyright © 2019 B.I.S.E, Lahore. All Rights Reserved.
Mr. Ali Nawaz Palijo took over as a first chairman on 19th December 1995 with a team of four officers and five officials were transferred permanently by the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Sukkur. It gives me immense pleasure to forward this special message to the students, teachers, parents and the people that, the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Larkana is launched its own Website on internet. In the era of globalization, no organization can fully develop without embracing the modern scientific methods. Our Website would be a big leap forward in the use of information technology by this Board, and it is visualized that through this Website the working of the Board will improve significantly. The Website of Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Larkana on internet will facilitate the people all over the world in general and the people of Pakistan, and the region in particular to have full access at their doorsteps to the information about the working of this Board. No Details And We shall try you until We test those among you who strive their utmost and persevere in patience; and We shall try your reported (mettle). (31) Verse Detail: 047.031 | 47_ Muhammad
"The establishment of BISE Malakand is yet another expression of the government resolve to make accessible education to all at their doorsteps. It reflects the commitment of the government to facilitate the students at SSC and HSSC levels The BISE Malakand, situated at Chakdara, provides services to the students of schools and colleges in the area of its jurisdiction. Presently, it covers the areas of District Dir Lower, Dir Upper, Malakand and Bajaur." Mr. Muhammad Naseem Khan A National Commission on Education, consisting of experts from different fields, of education was appointed in December, 1958. the Commission was mandated to review the then existing education system of the country. The Commission recommended that Secondary Education be given an independent status with specific aims and objectives. The secondary education separated from University and the Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education were established. The Board will be responsible for the conduct of Examination at the secondary and intermediate levels. Perhaps the idea was that the secondary education, which was the most formative stage, may receive special attention for its growth and development on other creating favorable atmosphere and conditions for the University to look after Higher Learning and Research work which shall guarantee capable and inspired leadership for the country. With this in view like other Boards in the country, the Examining Bodies, BISE Peshawar was established in 1961. At that time the area of Peshawar Board was comprised of the whole Khaber Pakhtunkhwa and tribal area. The number of Educational Institutions and students were increasing day by day. The Peshawar Board had established sub-office at Mardan, Swat, Kohat, Bannu Chitral and D.I.Khan. Later on the number of educational institutions and students increased to the extent that the public demanded the creation of more Boards. Taking into consideration the public demand, the Govt: decided to establish more Boards at Abbottabad, Bannu, Swat, Kohat, Mardan, Malakand and D.I.Khan. At present there are eight BISE's functioning in Khaber Pakhtunkhwa. As for as the jurisdiction of BISE Malakand is concerned, it is comprised of four zones (ie) 1. Dir Lower 2. Dir Upper 3. Distt: Malakand and 4. Bajaur. With the growing population of the students the Govt: almost every year up-grading Govt: Middle Schools to High Status. The management of such kind of Govt: schools forward their cases to the Board for affiliation purpose. The Board being the examining bodies and affiliating bodies inspect such schools with the collaboration of the concerned EDO (S&L) for the purpose of feasibility of the schools for affiliation purpose with the Board. Resultantly the Board, accord, refuse or withdraw affiliation of the school wholly or partly in the best interest of the students concerned. Similarly the management of private institutions also routed their applications/required documents of their institutions to the Board and the Board authorities launch inspections of such institutions along with concerned EDO (S&L) and an expert educationist of the area to examine the feasibility of the school/institution in all respect in the best interest of the concerned students community. Thus the Board accord, refuse or withdraw their affiliation/ registration, in the interest of the students. After declaration of SSC result, the students take admission in the Colleges/ Higher Secondary Schools for HSSC Examination. The Board Provides a notification for registration of the students with the Board for HSSC. Examination to all concerned colleges/ Higher Secondary Schools for compliance and this procedure starts from the month of August and laps at the end of October each year at the rate of Rs. 110/- per students as registration fee. Similarly those students who pass their middle standard examination and promote to Class-9th. The Board provide a notification to SSC level institutions for enrolment of students for SSC examination. This process starts from September an ends till the last of December each year at the rate Rs. 90 per student as enrolment fee. The Board being examining body hold workshops of supervisory staff nominated for examination duties of SSC and HSSC exams to give training and instruction for the conduction of smooth and transparent examination before the commencement of examination each year. Similarly the Board also hold seminars of Quiz competition among the students on Iqbal day (9th November), Independence Day (14th August) and Pakistan day (23rd March) each year. The Board also hold Urdu/Pashto and English debate/declamation contest among the students of its educational institutions, both SSC and HSSC level institutions on various topics. The Board also arrange for holding of essay competition among the students of various educational institution in order to promote their innovative activities. The function of the borad is to conduct examinations of SSC(9th/10th Class) and HSSC (11th/12th Class) and to prepare the result. The Jurisdiction of the Board consisting of the following four districts. 1 Chairman, BPS-20 1. Competent Authority of the Board. 2. Overall Supervision of the whole Board. 2 Secretary, BPS-19 1. To Assist the Chairman of the Board. 2. Controls the administrative side of the Board. 3. Responsible to arrange Finance and BOG meetings and prepare agendas for any meetings. 4. To circulate minutes of all the meetings with the concerned. 3 Controller of Examinations, BPS-18 1. To conduct all types of examinations to be held by the Board. 2. To appoint supervisory staff for these examinations. 3. Supervise the overall process of the examinations along with result preparation and declaration. 4. To assist the Secretary and Chairman of the Board in the examination process. 4 Assistant Controller (Secrecy) BPS-17 1. To assist Controller of Examination in the examination process at Secrecy Level. 2. To examine and check the overall secrecy process of result preparation and declaration. 5 Deputy Controller Examinations BPS-18 1. To Assist Controller of Examinations in the examination process at conduct level. 2. To prepare and issue notification of admission and prepare datesheet for various exams to be conducted by Board. 3. To assist Controller of Examinations in the appointment of supervisory staff for examinations. 4. To process and check the TA/DA claims of the claimants perform supervisory duties. 6 Assistant Secretary (Academic), BPS-17 1. To Assist the Secretary in the academic side of the Board. 2. To supervise the process of Enrolment/Registration of the students and the affiliation/registration of various schools and colleges. 3. To issue migration certificates to students from one institution to another or from one Board to another Board/Universtiy. 4. To notify the Enrolment/Registration time frame. 5. To issue course patterns and model paper to the students for various exams. 6. To issue National Talent Scholarship (NTS) Notification each year. 7. Organize and maintain record of students and distribute cheques amongst students of Stoori da Paktunkhwa program each and every year. 8. Organize PSF Competition. 9. Organize Summer Camp and Gold Medal Ceremony. 10. Grade-V and Grade-VII Enrolment. 11. Provision of various type of data regarding schools/colleges and enrolled students to E&SE Department. 12. Litigation Cell 7 Deputy Secretary (Certificate), BPS-18 1. To assist Secretary of the Board in the certificate side. 2. To issue and prepare certificates for students appearing in various exams. 3. To make corrections in various data related to certificates like name, father name and DOB etc. 4. Verification of Original Certificates. 8 Deputy Secretary (Establishment), BPS-18 1. To assist the Secretary at Establishment Side. 2. To prepare the monthly payroll of the Board officer/officials. 3. Correspondence with departments of the Civil Secretariat. 4. To issue various notifications regarding Board’s general affairs. 9 Accounts Officer, BPS-17 1. Accounts Officer of the Board holds all the matters related to accounts and finance. 2. Prepare and present the Annual Budget at Finance and BOG forums. 3. Looks after the overall income and expenditure of the board and also maintains the record. 10 Audit Officer, BPS-17 1. Assist the Secretary and Chairman at audit side. 2. Pre-auditing of the TA/DA claims of the supervisory and marking staff. 3. Process all the payment claims related to Board’s affairs. 11 Deputy Director IT, BPS-18 1. Supervise the overall computerization of the Board. 2. To ensure the on-time and transparent process of exam preparation and result preparation/declaration. 3. Facilitation of all the sections of the Board through computerization of their activities. 12 Web Master, BPS-16 1. Regularly update and manage the content to reflect the latest notifications, news, date sheets, developments, announcements, and information. 2. Design and develop user-friendly interfaces for boards, institutions, students, and other website users to access online services seamlessly. 3. Facilitate seamless data exchange and integration with external platforms for improved functionality and information sharing. 4. Streamline the online application processes to enhance efficiency and accessibility for users. 13 Admin Officer, BPS-17 1. Maintenance of BISE complex and residential bungalows. 2. Assist the Secretary in the administration side. 3. Arrange all the refreshment for various events and meetings of the Board. 14 Director Sports, BPS-18 1. Conducts Inter Colleges Sports Tournaments. 2. Prepare teams for Inter Board Tournaments. 3. Issue awards, medals and certificates to all the players every year.
Quality education is the key to success, instrumental to solution of problems, and essential for overall personality... Quality education is the key to success, instrumental to solution of problems, and essential for overall personality and social development. Beside promoting sports activities in the affiliated schools and Colleges, BISE, Mardan exercise its power to regulate and maintain Academic discipline, both in Public and Private Educational institutions, through the collective efforts of its important segments, in the Districts of Mardan, Nowshera and Swabi,....... The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Mardan, Khyber Pakhtukhwa established under ordinance ACT 1990, is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Education. It is empowered with administrative and financial authority to organize, regulate , develop and control Intermediate and Secondary Education, and conduct examinations in the institutions affiliated with it... Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Mardan mission is to provide enlighted education and examination services to the nation. The future of nation depends mainly on its educational system.Education sets the path for development and helps to achieve the desired goals. Therefore, Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Mardan is striving hard to take measures/steps to improve the quality education in the country... Secretary Secretary 0937-9230257-9230338 secretary@bisemdn.edu.pk Controller of Examinations/ Look-after Charge Controller of Examinations/ Look-after Charge 0937-9230279-9230338 controller@bisemdn.edu.pk Research & Development Officer M.Phil Botany 0937-9230354 academic@bisemdn.edu.pk Deputy. Director (IT) Deputy. Director (IT) 0937-844781 farhanulhaq4@gmail.com Student can generate computerized bank challan for submission of all types of Board fee .. OMR (Optical Mark Recognition system) for Computerized marking of Papers. Online Enrolment and Registration is to bring 100% accuracy in the data & prompt response on their doorstep. Visit or page. You can drop us email on
The role of Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Multan is to promote learning and educating process through free and fair conduct of examination. BISE Multan is an excellent organization under Punjab Higher Education Department, with set goals to promote trust and confidence of general public in examination procedure through highly refined, free of malpractice examination, original and real marking and error free compilation of results. At B.I.S.E, Multan, I am committed to impart and enhance the dignity of Multan Board through excellent working, wonderful services to the students and parents and restoring public confidence through the policy of maximum solution in minimum time period. I, as Chairperson, assure you all elements of transparency in the conduct of examination. I am also committed to serve the respectful and kind hearted citizens of Multan division by quick response to their grievances. Remember that my doors are open to all as long as I am in office. Multan Board is providing all kinds of online services and upgrading the Facilitation centre in BISE, Multan where the students and parents are being provided various services in minutes and hours instead of days and weeks in past. Chairman
Now apply Online for Re-Totaling of your Results. For details click on Read More Online Bank Challan/Deposit Slip for depositing Fee anywhere. Online Registration/Affiliation system for Registered/Affiliated institutions... BISE Peshawar's Portal System for Affiliated Institutions is Here
It gives me immense satisfaction that Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Rawalpindi is extending its services to the public by opening a new IT based window. The Government of the Punjab is endeavoring a lot to up-lift education in the province. The quality of education is an integral part of it. The access of candidates, parents, academicians or even general public to the rules and regulations and facilities being provided at Boards, will help to achieve the target of better examination system and establishing its integrity. It is a matter of great privilege and pride for me to be heading the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Rawalpindi at a time when the Board is making things more efficient by harnessing the power of technology. While we continue to affect improvements in the examination on the whole, especially in terms of smooth conduct of examinations and timely announcement of results, we are equally alive to the importance of making things more accessible to all stakeholders. This website is just a demonstration of the same. May Almighty Allah give us strength to serve the nation better. (Notification)
I am delighted to welcome you all to the official website of the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Saidu Sharif Swat, BISE Swat was established in 1991, Since its establishment, the Board delivered a free fair, and cheating free environment for examination to Malakand division and then to District Swat, Shangla and Buner. I am proud to be part and parcel of this esteemed institution since 2003. The organization is committed in advance knowledge and that of the examination system, for competing with the rest of the world. Our staff members are experts in their fields and the shining students are our prestige, throughout the country. All the Staff of BISE Swat are dedicated to their work to providing outstanding facilities to the students and general Public. I hope this institute will be one of the best Examination institutes in the country and the world. Allah may help us All.
Introduction The Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Sukkur, was established on 8.10.1979 under provision of the Ordinance mentioned in (2) above, The Offices of the Board was firstly established in a portion of A.B.D Law College Sukkur, then shifted in the rented bungalows situated in Muslim Housing Society at Military Road Sukkur. The Board occupied its own present premises / officers in the year 1985. (i) At the time of establishment, the territorial jurisdiction of the Board consisted of the at the time following Districts: 1 Jacobabad 2 Khairpur 3 Larkana 4 Nawabshah including the present territories of District Naushahroferoze 5 Sukkur including present territories of District Ghotki 6 Shikarpur (ii) Subsequently from the year 1985 the territories of Nawabshah District excepting Taluka Daulatpur were shifted to BISE, Hyderabad by the Government of Sindh (iii)(a) On establishment of the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education at Larkana, the territorial jurisdiction is confined to the following areas: 1 District Sukkur 2 District Ghotki 3 District Khairpur 4 District Naushahro Feroze 5 Taluka Daulatpur of Nawabshah District (b) Later on all the Institutions of Daulatpur Taluka of District Nawabshah were also shifted to Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education, Hyderabad in the year 2002. The Board is providing examination & certification facilities to the students of the region. The first annual examination of class IX and XI were held in the year 1980, by the newly appointed inexperienced staff with limited resource and meager accommodation. It was a huge task but only by the Grace of Allah, the almighty, both the major examinations were conducted very smoothly. The initial teething and weaning difficulties having been overcome the Board, within one year assumed its normal stature and the performance during the SSC/HSC examination 1981. EXPANSION AND FINANCE To provide maximum facilities to the public of this region, the Board has been liberally acceding to the public demand for opening new centers for the examination. Almost every year the new examination centers are established. BISE Sukkur is leading towards self sufficiency and have to meet their revenue as well as capital demands from examination fees, which is its only source of income. By exercising extreme financial control, adopting strict economy measures and making liabilities on staff and equipment, i.e. to grow step by step with the requirements, the Board has been able to transfer sufficient funds to the development budget. DEVELOPMENTS In order to operate efficiently, the Board has got its own building with a cost of Rs:10.000 million. A piece of land measuring 14 acres was acquired through local administration. It was decided to construct the Board's complex in two phases. The first phase included construction of Administration Block, Chairman's residence, Officers flats, Servant quarters, Auditorium Hall, Bank, Post office, Cafeteria & library, whereas the second phase includes construction of Mosque, youth hostel & mini stadium, which are still to be taken up. Apart from the above, the auditorium hall has been renovated with all facilities and a pumping station to meet the requirement of potable water for the employees of the Board has also been got installed at kheerthar canal. The newly constructed building is located at Shikarpur Road. Wherein the shifting was made in the year 1986. SPORTS AND GAMES In the year 1981 the Boards hockey team participated Inter Board Hockey Championship Pakistan and Inter Board School Championship at Hyderabad. Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Sukkur athletic team participated in all Pakistan Inter Board Athletic Championship at Sahiwal (Punjab) and got fifth position in 10th Boards competition. Thereafter, the Board is constantly taking part in various games which were held at various places of Pakistan, such as Inter Collegiate Sports for Boys and Girls, Table Tennis, Badminton, Athletics and Hockey, The Boys of the Board (Hockey) took part in all Pakistan Inter Board Hockey Championship held at Sargoha in 1983 and at Sukkur their boys took part in Table Tennis competition at public school, Sukkur. The Board's Badminton team participated in the Inter Board Badminton Championship at Mutan, Kabaddi team participated at Bahawalpur and football team took part at Azad Kashmir. The Board's teams took part in foot ball at national level. [Home] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] Copyright � 2010 by Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education Sukkur, Sindh-Pakistan. E-Mail: , Phone: (92) 71 5630522
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s lunar mission (ICUBE-Q) will be launched on the coming Friday from Hainan, China. According to Pakistan’s Institute of Space Technology (IST), the satellite ICUBE-Q has been designed and developed by IST in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University (SJTU) and support from Pakistan’s national space agency SUPARCO. The launch activity will be telecast live on the IST website and IST social media accounts, an official statement said on Tuesday. Copyright Business Recorder, 2024 Comments are closed.
BSEK was established in 1950 the major ambition of this board is to promote school education and this board work for betterment of education and maintain high standards of education in Karachi Chairman Secretary Controller of Examination's This video tutorial teach you how to use bsek portal , fill the applications and submit the forms.
Meet Sydney Engelbert from Keningau Vocational College, on the Island of Borneo. Read our global update for schools to find out about support measures and withdrawal deadlines in 2024. Find out about all our latest developments including digital exams, climate change education, the Science Competition and syllabus updates. An integrated programme, including: A broad and balanced curriculum: A broad and balanced curriculum: A wide choice of subjects at: A wide choice of subjects at: * Age ranges are for guidance only Registration is open for our Cambridge Schools Conference on 6 and 7 July 2024. Find out more and book on any of our forthcoming online training courses. Discover our new range of teaching tools to help you to deliver interactive classroom activities and engage learners. Available to Cambridge Schools on the School Support Hub. Find out what it's like to study at universities worldwide from former Cambridge students. For timetabled exams, all candidates must be under Full Centre Supervision or in the exam at the Key Time.
The Institute of Space Technology on Tuesday said Pakistan’s “historic” lunar mission iCube-Q will be launched on May 3 at 12:50pm on board China’s Chang’e 6 lunar probe from Hainan, China. According to the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the satellite ICUBE-Q has been designed and developed by IST in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University SJTU and Pakistan’s national space agency Suparco. ICUBE-Q orbiter carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. Following successful qualification and testing, iCube-Q has now been integrated with the Chang’e 6 mission. Chang’e 6 is the sixth in a series of China’s lunar exploration missions. The launch activity will be telecast live on the IST website and IST social media platforms. China’s lunar mission will touch down on the moon’s far side to collect samples from the surface and return to Earth for research. The mission holds significance for Pakistan as it will also take a CubeSat Satellite iCube-Q, developed by IST. CubeSats are miniature satellites typically characterised by their small size and standardised design. They are constructed in a cubic shape, consisting of modular components that adhere to specific size constraints. These satellites often weigh no more than a few kilogrammes and were deployed in space for various purposes. The primary purpose of CubeSats was to facilitate scientific research, technology development, and educational initiatives in space exploration. These satellites were utilised for a wide range of missions, including Earth observations, remote sensing, atmospheric research, communications, astronomy and technology demonstration. Due to their compact size and relatively low cost compared to traditional satellites, CubeSats offered opportunities for universities, research institutions and commercial entities to participate in space missions and gather valuable data for scientific advancement and innovation. They serve as platforms for testing new technologies and concepts, enabling access to space for a broader range of users and promoting collaboration within the space community. Last year in August, India became the to land a craft near the Moon’s south pole, a historic triumph for its ambitious, cut-price space programme. Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon.
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s maiden lunar mission — iCube Qamar — embarked on its journey on Friday as part of a Chinese probe, which aims to collect samples from the far side of the moon, a world first as Beijing pushes ahead with an ambitious programme that aims to send a crewed lunar mission by 2030. The iCube-Q orbiter, which carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface, is a 7kg cube satellite or cubesat. Cubesats are miniature satellites typically characterised by their small size and standardised cubic design. These satellites are used by academic institutes for experimental and research purposes in Low Earth Orbits, generally with an altitude of less than 1,000km. However, they are now finding many applications in higher orbits and deep space missions. China launched the uncrewed spacecraft on a nearly two-month mission. The Long March-5, China’s largest rocket, blasted off at 5:27pm Beijing time (0927 GMT) from Wenchang Space Launch Centre on the southern island of Hainan with the more than 8 tonnes Chang’e-6 probe. iCube Qamar miniature satellite part of Chang’e-6 probe aimed at collecting samples from far side of moon Chang’e-6 is tasked with landing in the South Pole-Aitken Basin — one of the largest known impact craters in the solar system — on the far side of the moon, which perpetually faces away from the earth, after which it will retrieve and return samples. The launch marks another milestone in China’s lunar and space exploration programme. The Chinese mission will employ lunar research payloads from multiple countries, including Pakistan’s iCube Qamar, which was designed by the Islamabad-based Institute of Space Technology (IST) in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University (SJTU) and Pakistan’s national space agency Suparco. The launch was attended by scientists, diplomats and space agency officials from France, Italy, Pakistan, and the European Space Agency, all of which have moon-studying payloads aboard Chang’e-6. Pakistan’s ambassador to China, Khalil Hashmi, IST’s Prof Qamarul Islam and other senior officials witnessed the launch. Congratulating the nation on this historic achievement, Ambassador Hashmi said the launch signifies yet another milestone and a good example of Pakistan-China cooperation in space exploration and research. iCube Qamar The IST said the opportunity to release the cubesat in lunar orbit from Chang’e-6 mission was offered by the China National Space Agency (CNSA) through the Asia Pacific Space Cooperation Organisation (APSCO). After a thorough evaluation, Pakistan’s proposal was accepted out of all APSCO member states. ICube-Q carries two cameras as payload for imaging lunar surface and earth/moon images from lunar orbit besides having three-axis altitude control for desired orientation, onboard computer, thermal control, telemetry and tele-command and payload data communication modules for connecting through deep space network. The Chang’e-6 rocket will take five days to reach the moon’s orbit. ICube-Q will be deployed on May 8 in a carefully selected 12-hour elliptical orbit that will allow imaging of the desired lunar surfaces. The IST is a federally chartered university that pioneered the development of cubesats in Pakistan by launching its first cubesat iCube-1 in Low Earth Orbit in November 2013. According to Khurram Khurshid, the head of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department at IST and co-lead on the satellite project, this is Pakistan’s first deep space mission which is a historic moment that would pave the way for launching other deep space missions in the future. Operating in extreme temperatures as low as minus 100 degrees Celsius, the satellite features a one-megapixel camera tailored for missions with power constraints. “Its surface-level analysis capabilities, transmitting images at a modest 1 kbps, will provide crucial data on crater locations, water, and traces of ice on the moon’s surface. These findings, obtained through various techniques, hold promise for global utilisation,” said Dr Khurshid, who is second to project director Dr Qamarul Islam. Reactions President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif congratulated the nation on the successful launch of Pakistan’s maiden lunar mission. According to the state-run broadcaster Radio Pakistan, President Zardari said the successful launch would be a “milestone” for Pakistan’s space programme. He also commended the cooperation between Pakistan and China in aerospace. PM Shehbaz hailed the iCube-Q satellite as “Pakistan’s first step in space” and said that Pakistani scientists and engineers were “proving their mettle … like the expertise they exhibited in the nuclear technology [programme]”. The acceptance of Pakistan’s mission among eight countries was the recognition of the capabilities of the country’s scientists and experts, he added. “This is a historic milestone in the technological development. By this achievement, Pakistan has entered a new era of exploring space for productive purposes,” the prime minister remarked. PM Shehbaz said the achievement would help build Pakistan’s capacity in satellite communications besides opening up new avenues for scientific research, economic development and national security. Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar took to X (formerly Twitter) to “congratulate the young Pakistani students and scientists on the launch” of the lunar mission. “Today’s launch from Hainan … is a good example of countries and organisations coming together for space cooperation and shared benefits,” he added. Published in Dawn, May 4th, 2024 Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon.
Free Sothink DHTML Menu is an easy to use drop down menu builder, which helps you to create the clear JavaScript menu in clicks. This web menu creator makes cross-browser, fast-loading and search engine friendly navigation bar without writing DHTML and JavaScript. Rich templates and publish wizard help to simplify all painful design work. Fully customize the menu style, including font, color, background... Sothink DHTML Menu makes creating drop down menu, JavaScript menu become easy, you can build navigation bar for web navigation in WYSWYG menu editor, no code needed. The generated SE friendly web menu works well on . The diverse built-in resources can quick design the professional JavaScript menu. As free plug-in, it can integrate with the popular HTML editors, DW, FP and EW. Fully customize the menu style. Sothink Tree Menu is the easy-to-use menu maker, it enables to build clear JavaScript menu for large directory website. Tree menu is the best guider to switch to the target page. The JavaScript menu builder can generate the robust code to cross browsers on various platforms. Free integrate with Dreamweaver, FrontPage and Expression Web as add-ons. Customize JavaScript menu properties, like font, icon, background, border, etc.
At the back drop of 18th Amendment in the constitution of Pakistan to devolve the education to provinces and with introduction of Article 25 A, it necessitated to review and revisit the approaches for the promotion of quality education. Bureau of Curriculum and Extension Centre Balochistan being an organ of education department government of Balochistan has a pivotal role in enhancing the quality of education BOC & EC foresee as a centre of quality of control through development of research based output standards and curriculum review with the collaboration of sister organizations that produce quality, innovative and skilled human resources to meet the local and global market needs. As this directorate has already contributed in developing a guiding document in the form of “Balochistan Education Sector Plan” with all other thematic groups, it is too being ensured that same contribution will continue with all stakeholders to ensure provision of quality education at each level. Contact to give us your important feedback. Your feedback is highly appreciatable click 2017 © All Rights Reserved. EMIS is Techincally supported by
April 30, 2024 ISLAMABAD: Following India's Chandrayaan-3 moon landing last year, Pakistan’s historic lunar mission (ICUBE-Q) is set to be launched on Friday (May 3) on board China’s Chang’E6 from Hainan. According to the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the satellite ICUBE-Q has been designed and developed by the institute in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University SJTU and Pakistan’s national space agency Suparco. ICUBE-Q orbiter carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. Following successful qualification and testing, ICUBE-Q has now been integrated with the Chang’e6 mission. Chang’e6 is the sixth in a series of China’s lunar exploration missions. Chang’6, China’s Lunar Mission will touch down on the moon’s far side to collect samples from the surface and return to earth for research. The mission holds significance for Pakistan as it will also take a Pakistan CubeSat Satellite iCube-Q, developed by IST. CubeSats are miniature satellites typically characterized by their small size and standardised design. They are constructed in a cubic shape, consisting of modular components that adhere to specific size constraints. These satellites often weigh no more than a few kilograms and are deployed in space for various purposes. The primary purpose of CubeSats is to facilitate scientific research, technology development, and educational initiatives in space exploration. These satellites are utilised for a wide range of missions, including earth observations, remote sensing, atmospheric research, communications, astronomy, and technology demonstration. Due to their compact size and relatively low cost compared to traditional satellites, CubeSats offer opportunities for universities, research institutions, and commercial entities to participate in space missions and gather valuable data for scientific advancement and innovation. They serve as platforms for testing new technologies and concepts, enabling access to space for a broader range of users and promoting collaboration within the space community.
Empowering Pakistan through Higher Education In continuation of its efforts to enable the country's higher education sector to become more effective in academic excellence, management and problem-oriented research, the HEC Pakistan Wednesday held launch conference of the NAHE.
Empowering Pakistan through Higher Education In continuation of its efforts to enable the country's higher education sector to become more effective in academic excellence, management and problem-oriented research, the HEC Pakistan Wednesday held launch conference of the NAHE.
Admissions are Open Admissions are Open Al Khwarizmi Scholarships
Lecturer MS Institute of Space Technology, NCRG KarachiArea of Specialization:Remote Sensing and GISc
Associate Professor PhD (Materials Science & Engineering) PIEAS, Islamabad, PakistanArea of Specialization:Nanostructured Multi-Layer Thin Film Solar Cells 92.51.9075508abdul.faheem@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology, PakistanArea of Specialization:(Theoretical and Nuclear Astrophysics) Nucleosynthesis problem (r-, s-, p- and rp-process), Evolution phases of stars and supernova explosions, Nuclear cross-section, Quantum many bodies interaction, Nuclear abundances, Numerical techniques used in nuclear physics, Theoretical plasma and optical properties of materialabdul.kabir@ist.edu.pk
Head of Department PhD (Shape Memory Materials)Tokyo Institute of Technology (TITECH) JapanPost-doctoral (High temperature shape memory materials)High Temperature Materials Unit, NIMS, Tsukuba JapanArea of Specialization:Shape memory and super-elastic materials, Biomaterials, High temperature materials, Corrosion, oxidation92.51.9075584abdul.wadood@ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor & Director ORIC PhD The Hong Kong University of Science and TechnologyArea of Specialization:Modelling Simulation and Control92.51.9075467 waheed@ist.edu.pk
The Institute of Space Technology (IST) is committed to fostering an all-inclusive and supportive learning environment for its community. In abidance with The Higher Education Commission’s (HEC) Policy on Protection against Sexual Harassment in Higher Education Institutions, IST has a zero-tolerance policy for any untoward conduct that violates the dignity of any individual within the institution. The Harassment Complaint Cell (HCC) was established on 20 February 2012, for monitoring and protection against sexual harassment of any individual at IST. It has since developed policies and procedures to address sexual and gender-based harassment so that members of the IST community feel safe and secure in a harassment- free environment since they have an avenue to voice their grievances. For further information about the policies or harassment issues, kindly contact: Dr Ausima Sultan Malik, Head of the Harassment Complaint Cell (HCC), IST Room number 210, Second Floor, Rashid Block, IST 051-9075561 Dr. Syeda Aysha Bokhari Room number 208, Second Floor, Rashid Block, IST 051-9075455 Every member of the IST community has the right to work and conduct learning, research, and scholarship without being subject to any form of discrimination, harassment, or social pressure. The HCC’s investigative process is designed to be confidential and fair. No reprimand will be initiated for filing a legitimate complaint. HCC will ensure the protection of the rights of the complainant and the accused. Eliminating harassment from educational institutions requires a cohesive effort by its community – the HCC is IST’s spearhead in this endeavor.
Be a National torchbearer, in the realm of academics, through quality teaching, robust research and outreach – to produce leaders in the field of Space Science and Technology, in line with National aspirations.
From Faizabad it is about 13 Mins, 19.7 KM drive
Lab Engineer BS (Mechanical Engineering) NFC, FaisalabadArea of Specialization:Fluid Thermal System
IST empowers the active, passionate pursuit of learning for a better world. The institute offers academic degrees and programs that are approved by The Higher Education Commission as well as The Pakistan Engineering Council. IST also offers Linked Graduate Programs in collaboration with foreign universities in a host of disciplines, providing a solution to earn a foreign degree economically. The academic year is divided into two semesters.
The Aviation Center at Institute of Space Technology is offering internationally recognized academic program Aircraft Maintenance Engineering (AME) License with specialization in the fields of Aerospace (B1.1 & B1.2) and Avionics (B2). Is mechanically oriented and covers aircraft structure air frame systems, engines and propellers, or rotors as appropriate. To cover electrical power and distribution and control and indication systems. Is avionics based and confers privileges similar to those of the aerospace engineer associated with avionics systems. Program: For SSC/FSc Students:
Institute of Space Technology offers Graduate Programs that lead students to earn their MS degrees economically in the cutting edge technologies in the respective disciplines. The Institute of Space Technology offers the following Graduate programs:
The Institute of Space Technology offers Undergraduate degree programs in the following disciplines:
The Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics maintains internationally recognized academic programs in Aerospace engineering via ongoing consultation with students, faculty, industry, and aerospace professionals. Results of these consultations are used in a process of continuous academic improvement to provide the best possible education for our students. The aerospace engineer is primarily concerned with the design, analysis, testing, and overall operation of vehicles which operate in air, water, and space. The curriculum is designed to provide the student with an education in the fundamental principles of aerodynamics, flight dynamics, propulsion, structural mechanics, flight controls, design, testing, and space technologies. A wide variety of opportunities awaits the aerospace engineering graduate in research, development, design, production, sales, and management in the aerospace industry, and in many related industries in which fluid flow, control, and transportation problems play major roles.
The Department of Applied Mathematics & Statistics was established at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) in September 2014. Academic programs and their curricula are designed per the guidelines of the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan to align with modern technologies to bridge the applied and engineering disciplines so that an interdisciplinary research culture may prevail. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence are emerging fields that are integral parts of our undergraduate program. This would help train the students to excel in the fields of new and innovative technologies. This distinguished feature of the department is indeed a modification in the conventional graduate degree programs offered anywhere else. This would help in strengthening the mathematical as well as interdisciplinary foundations of the students. This would train students to make them highly marketable in view of modern challenges and requirements.
The Department of Electrical Engineering runs internationally recognized academic program in Electrical Engineering (EE) and Computer Science (CS) with different specializations at undergraduate and graduate levels. The department was established in 2002 and started offering degree in Communication Systems Engineering (CSE). In 2009, keeping in view the expanding focus, the department was renamed as Electrical Engineering Department. The Department consists of experienced faculty, well-equipped classrooms and state-of-the-art lab facilities. The department provides continuous academic improvement through consultation with faculty, industry, electronics & communication engineering professionals and students. The focus of the courses is on the design, analysis, development and testing of communication & electronic systems encompassing latest international research trends. The curriculum of Electrical Engineering is designed to provide all-rounder experience to students in fundamental principles and application of electronics, embedded systems, signal analysis, electromagnetic, antennas, digital communications, digital signal processing, image processing, wireless technologies, fiber-optics and satellite systems. The curriculum provides the students a chance to study a variety of courses over the period of four years. The curriculum of Computer Science is designed to provide in-depth knowledge about the field of computing and related interdisciplinary areas. The students will be able to gain practical knowledge and hands-on experience in the areas like artificial intelligence, image processing, mobile application development, big data analytics, social network analysis, computer architecture and Internet of Things (IoT). The program of computer science will allow the students to involve themselves in the solution development of the real-world problems and open the opportunities for the students as potential candidates for private or public sector organization, freelance developers and entrepreneurs.
Established in 2010 in the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the Department of Humanities plays a central role in diversifying the focused STEM based academics of the university. In nurturing core skills for personal development within students, the department serves a vital supportive role. The societies we live in also keep changing, in part, because of science and technology. So, in certain important ways, humans resist the kind of explanations that science gives us, yet the multidisciplinary nature of the humanities provide us an outlet to further address and understand these changes beyond a scientific approach. The humanities have always been more about questions than answers, and students are encouraged to develop critical thinking skills by evaluating the world around them. Capitalizing on this, the Department of Humanities leads the growth for both students and faculty in expanding the representation of the social sciences on a national level. Overall, the humanities faculty is committed towards leading an unprecedented shift towards innovative citizenship and create new inroads for social arts and scholarship. In juxtaposing science with humanities, we hope to create leaders that will reshape and evolve the academic conversation.
The Department of Mechanical Engineering provides a firm foundation in basic sciences, mathematics and design methodology in the area of mechanical structures, fluids, manufacturing and thermal systems. Engines, ships, train, air & space vehicles, steam & gas turbine, machine tools, robots etc are a few systems and devices that need the knowledge of mechanical engineering. The curriculum includes the methodological tools, innovative thought, communication skills, management tools, and provide students the opportunities to work efficiently as individuals and in teams. In the senior year of the program, students are required to apply the theoretical knowledge to real world problems and gain hands-on engineering experiences that require problem designing, team work, communication, time management and economic analysis. The department encourages students to pursue internships that link academic knowledge to lifelong work experiences. The department also offers the opportunity for the students to participate in professional societies such as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics (AIAA) etc. The reason for offering mechanical engineering is to prepare students for a wide range of exciting industrial opportunities including aerospace, manufacturing, automotive, chemical, biomedical, nuclear power, robotics, and textiles. Mechanical Engineers can find employment in the field of research & development, production & manufacturing, design, operation & maintenance, and administration.
The Department of Materials Science & Engineering is a hub of research and teaching, supported by state of the art laboratories & equipment. The research facilities are regularly being utilized not only by our own students but also by students coming from universities spread over all the four provinces, including Gilgit Baltistan & Azad Kashmir. Courses are designed to impart the fundamental concepts on one hand and their specialized applications in metals and alloys, ceramics, polymers and composites on the other. Diversification in specialties is the strength of our faculty; energy harvesting and storage, micro/nano electronic devices, optoelectronics, bio-inspired nanostructured materials, electroactive materials and multifunctional materials, to name a few. The department is proud to uphold the tradition of strong linkage with the industry as well as with the R&D organizations, where a good percentage of our graduates serve.
Realizing the fact that many of the developed countries are already drawing tangible benefits of geospatial technologies in a variety of discipline areas, while developing countries like Pakistan are merely a user of these technologies and its applications, a well-equipped Department of Remote Sensing and Geo-Information Science (RS&GISc) is established at Karachi to serve as a Centre of Excellence called National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geo-informatics (NCRG). The National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geo-informatics is mandated to fill in this technological awareness and skill development gap and to draw optimum benefits through these technologies in various national programmes. The Department runs under the Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad. It has a mandate to offer a wide range of educational programs including short trainings and Master program in varied disciplines of Remote Sensing and GIS. The Master degree in RS&GISc is an intensive program for students who are interested in exploring the emerging space technologies and its applications in different disciplines. The Department of Remote Sensing and Geo-information Science (RS&GISc) provides a powerful platform for scholars, professionals, students, public and private sector organizations to broaden their vision in space-related technologies and applications.
Space Science is the study and research of issues specifically related to space flight/ travel and space exploration. It comprises of interdisciplinary fields e.g. Stellar, Solar, Galactic and Extragalactic Astronomy, Planetary Science and Physical Cosmology, Astrobiology, Astrochemistry, Astrophysics, Space Plasma Physics, Orbital Mechanics/ Astrodynamics, Atmospheric/ Environmental Science, Satellite and Space Communications, Space Systems, Space Environment and Space Medicine. Rapidly growing subjects of Space Science in the present era of information technology are in process of evolution from the state of infancy to the advanced levels at academic and research institutions. The significant subjects falling under the umbrella of Space Science comprise Remote Sensing, Satellite Applications, Space Physics, Astrodynamics, Atmospheric Science etc. The courses offered in the department are the main building blocks of Space Science. Emphasis has also been given to research and applications-oriented areas such as Flight Dynamics and Control, Space Mission Design and Analysis, Space Data Processing and Geoinformatics. The Space Science uses new space-age technologies like satellite positioning, space data visualizations, analysis tools and space data interpretation to greatly advance scientific understanding of Earth and its systems. With the launch of Earth resources satellites in Low Earth Orbit and Communication Satellites in Geostationary and various other orbits around the Earth, space based observatory mission, deep space probes and robots for planetary explorations; the last decade has witnessed a wide spectrum of applications in diverse fields subject to the need and quality of imagery datasets acquired from the Earth orbiting satellites. The advances in computing technology & techniques have also contributed a lot in the development of more sophisticated than ever sensors capable of observing the Earth with specialized and dedicated on-board sensors with the help of satellite constellations. The Space Science department at IST is a truly multidisciplinary department. As society looks towards the future, we continue the pursuit of further understanding the Earth system and beyond with our focus on, Remote Sensing and Geographical Information Science, Astronomy and Astrophysics, Physics, Astrodynamics, Atmospheric and Environmental Science, Meteorology and Earth Sciences. The department also conducts public awareness programs like Sky-watch/ Star-gazing shows and World Space Week (UN) for scientific outreach.
IST Library is integrated with digital technology and electronic information resources. There is an active collection development program for IST Library. It has a dynamic collection of books, journals, magazines, related to various academic disciplines, which is supplemented by the availability of reprographic facility. The core design, furniture and general decor contribute to the formation of an intellectual environment that attracts students to study with concentration. All functions of library including membership, searching, circulation and reservation of books, and searching of other library materials are fully automated. IST Library has a good collection of latest reference, text books and digital materials on related academic disciplines, which caters to the varied tastes of users. Moreover, a balanced collection of books on Islam, Literature and other areas are also available. Library also subscribes to a large number of journals, magazines and newspapers to meet the requirements of researchers, faculty members and students. To enrich the library collection with latest online resources, available through Internet, publications from professional bodies are also accessible. Audio-visual material is considered an essential medium of instruction. Library has a good collection of audios, videos, CDs / DVDs and related audio / video devices. Reprographic facility is available with library. Users can get photocopy of required information from reference materials like reference books, handbooks, encyclopedias, dictionaries, journals and magazines etc. The library services / facilities include Circulation, Reference, Audio Visual, On-line Information Retrieval, Current Awareness Service (CAS), Selective Dissemination of Information (SDI), Book and other material Request, Online Reservation, Inter Library Loan, Plagiarism detection and prevention, and Orientation Sessions etc. The library's information and orientation program extends the role of library in ensuring that users make the most effective use of library resources. The program is designed to train the faculty members, students, and staff in locating printed and electronic knowledge resources to fulfill their information needs.
The Accreditation is under process with PNAC for ISO /IEC - 17025
Lecturer MS Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Deep-learning, Machine Learning, Computer Vision and Image ProcessingAbroad for PhD92.51.9075746adeel.yousaf@ist.edu.pk
Space is considered to be the final frontier and world’s best minds take up the most daunting challenges to conquer itFazeel Mahmood Khan, PhD The past century has been host to many technological advancements resulting in a gradual progression towards the betterment of society. Space science as such, has been a vital force behind this advancement and has revolutionized the process of advancement. Institute of Space Technology (IST), one of the premier institutes in Pakistan, is a federally chartered, HEC recognized and PEC accredited, degree awarding Institute (DAI) established in 2002 with the aim to equip students with specialized education in the fields of Engineering and Space Science to address the emerging national and global issues in the said fields. All courses taught at IST are in line with international standards and aim to develop critical thinking and analytical skills among the students. Backed by a dedicated and highly qualified faculty, state-of-the-art facilities give students all the tools necessary for them to become experts in their field of studies. IST has achieved an astounding success in a short span of time, owing to the concerted efforts of its leadership, faculty and students to standout in the field of engineering and to create a national center of excellence in space technology. Today, IST is proud to consider itself a leader in Space Science and Technology and is now ranked among the leading engineering universities/DAIs of Pakistan. A unique honor of IST is that it is the only university of Pakistan that has sent a satellite (iCUBE-1) to the Lower Earth Orbit (LEO). Likewise, all Engineering Programs of IST are accredited Under Level-II, Substantially equivalent to Washington Accord by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC). That means Engineering Degree from IST is equivalent to Engineering Degree from USA, UK, Australia, Canada, Japan and several other Signatory countries. All science programs offered by IST are also versatile in nature to meet the ongoing demands & requirements of local & international markets. IST believes in contributing to the overall growth and progress of the society. Keeping in perspective its vision, IST organizes numerous National & International events, training and workshops for capacity building of students, faculty and general masses which include World Space Week (WSW), IST Youth Carnival (IYC), Space Summer School (SSS), International Conference on Aerospace Science and Engineering (ICASE), Student Research Paper Conference (SRPC) etc. At IST, Department of Student Affairs is specifically targeted at enriching on-campus students’ experience through its following working domains to ensure that students can attain utmost level of professionalism, ethics and morals during and after their stay at IST: Umeed is an educational awareness and community building society which is run by the students of IST. It has undertaken various welfare projects related with education, infrastructure, health and well-being in under privileged government-run schools. With efforts increasing each day, Umeed strives to eliminate the hurdles in the path of basic education for the less privileged segment of the society. IST was the first & only university from Pakistan which had been awarded “Yousif Badri Civic Engagement International Prize-2016” in recognition of efforts undertaken by Umeed. IST is making continuous efforts to reach a level where it will be compared with best universities of the world in terms of quality education and research.
Aerospace Engineering is an emerging field of the new millennium. Presently, Pakistan has shortage of Aerospace Engineers and most of the seats reserved for Aerospace Engineers are vacant and very few Aerospace Engineers are coming from abroad to fulfill the needs. Like wise Electrical Engineering has a vast market nationally and internationally. The Engineers in these fields are hired in Government Sector on enhanced pay scales. For more details check out Students with HSSC/ A-Level/ Equivalent (Phy, Maths and Computer) are eligible to apply for the program of BS (Space Science) only. Please upload FSC final result card with your online application form. Yes, it is mandatory to have valid NAT/ HAT/ SAT-II score because it has 40% weightage in merit for Pre-engineering students and 60% weightage for A-Level student. Mention NTN number of your guardian, if available, otherwise leave that cell empty. A guardian is a person who are looking after you in terms of taking your care, paying your educational expenses etc. If you are sure that you will be able to improve your score in major subjects as per eligibility criteria mentioned on IST website, then you may apply for admission in engineering programs of IST based on your score in FSC (Part-1). If you are sure that you will be able to improve your score after FSC, as per eligibility criteria mentioned on IST website, then you may apply for admission in IST based on your score in FSC (Part-1). Yes, it is mandatory for O-Level students to obtain equivalence certificate from IBCC and upload with online application form before the closing date of application to apply for admission in IST. Yes, it is mandatory if an applicant have already passed A-Level exam. In other case a student can obtain A-Level equivalence certificate after the announcement of results. You are required to mention the score of FSc (Part-1) because as per eligibility criteria, merit will be determined based on the marks obtained in FSc (Part-1). If you have deposit application processing fee then please wait. Your application will be processed soon. Merit lists are displayed on IST website within one week after the closing date to apply for admission in IST. You are required to upload desired documents with your online admission form. Do not send application form or any other document to IST. Last date to deposit application processing fee is same as closing date to apply for admission in IST. Reference Number is mentioned just below the line where obtained marks by the student are mentioned on equivalence certificate. Serial Number is given on top right corner of equivalence certificate. FSc students are required to mention registration number issued by concerned board. Yes, you can edit/update your online application form up to closing date to apply for admission in IST by using your log-in details. In the same way, you can also upload or replace existing documents which are attached with your online application form. When you will upload new documsnt, the previous one will be deleted automatically. You are required to send an email at info@ist.edu.pk highlighting the problem which you are facing while creating log in or accessing your online application form Yes, you can apply for admission in IST based on your score in FSC pre-medical (part-1).
Disclaimer: The Institute reserves the right to change fee structure from time to time. Before the commencement of classes of each semester, all active students are registered for courses offered by respective department. A student shall not be considered to have been registered for the semester unless all previous dues have been paid. Hostel accommodation and transport facilities shall only be provided to students after registration. Every student must update his/her personal information shown in student portal at the start of every semester. The following fine will be levied for payment of fee after due date: For first fifteen days after the due date, 5% of the total payable amount After fifteen days and up to one month after due date, 10% of the total payable amount Students will only be allowed to appear in final exam after deposit of outstanding dues along with fine Payment of fees can be made through online Transfer/Bank Draft/Pay order against the fee challan issued at any online branch of HBL (Nationwide). Note: Cheques and Cash are not acceptable.
The date of request for fee refund claims will be considered from the date of receipt of application through email at To apply for refund, an applicant is required to email refund request at along-with the reason of leaving IST, scan copy of paid challan form/s & copy of CNIC of Guardian Application Processing Fee and Admission Fee are non-refundable. From Registration, all students are required to complete NDC to process the refund of dues (if any) as per fee refund policy Tuition Fee, Sports Fee, Library Fee and Laboratory Fee, service charges, Safe/Smart Campus Charges, Endowment Fund, Library Development Fund are refundable within 15 days of convene of classes on a pro rata basis as given below. No refund shall be admissible after 15 days of convene of classes either one joins IST/avail facilities or not. If admission is offered after commencement of classes, date of commencement of classes will be considered as mentioned in offer letter. Adjustment of student liability from 2nd Semester onward will be based on class attendance & facility will be charged as per actual. The application for the adjustment of student’s liability will only be entertained on the verification by concerned HoD and approval of Registrar. In case of Admission cancellation in 1st semester cheque of fee refund will be issued in the name of student’s father/Guardian. 100% dues will be refunded in case where student could not attain requisite marks/grade for admission as prescribed by the institute. This policy is only applicable on fresh admissions. However Optional Charges will be deducted as per actual usage of facilities based on 4.5 Month/Semester Basis. In case of semester freeze, fee once deposited will be adjusted in next semester as per freeze policy after re-joining the student. If student wants to leave the institute after freezing his semester, then dues will be refunded according to refund policy present at the time of freezing the semester. Transport Charges and Hostel Charges (Dormitory Charges, Shuttle Service Charges, Washing Charges) are refundable within 30 days of registration on a pro rata basis as given below. No refund shall be admissible after 30 days of registration either one joins IST/avails facilities or not. However, refund will be calculated based on the date of application or date of leaving the facilities whichever is later. In case of refund of optional dues (Hostel + Transport) before registration day, 100% dues will be refunded. Conversion of Hostel Facility into Transport Facility (subject to availability) within two months will be adjusted as per actual use of facility (4.5 Months basis). After two months, transport facility will be provided free of cost. However, conversion of Transport Facility into Hostel Facility (subject to availability) requires the deposit of deficient amount (Hostel Charges Less Transport Charges). During continual enrollment, a student can avail monthly hostel facility maximum up to two months. Otherwise S/he will have to pay full semester charges. Before the commencement of classes of each semester, all active students are registered for courses offered by respective department. A student shall not be considered to have been registered for the semester unless all previous dues have been paid. Hostel accommodation and transport facilities shall only be provided to students after registration. Every student must update his/her personal information shown in student portal at the start of every semester. The following fine will be levied for payment of fee after due date: For first fifteen days after the due date, 5% of the total payable amount After fifteen days and up to one month after due date, 10% of the total payable amount Students will only be allowed to appear in final exam after deposit of outstanding dues along with fine Payment of fees can be made through online Transfer/Bank Draft/Pay order against the fee challan issued at any online branch of HBL (Nationwide). Note: Cheques and Cash are not acceptable.
Before the commencement of classes of each semester, all active students are registered for courses offered by respective department. A student shall not be considered to have been registered for the semester unless all previous dues have been paid. Hostel accommodation and transport facilities shall only be provided to students after registration. Every student must update his/her personal information shown in student portal at the start of every semester. The following fine will be levied for payment of fee after due date: For first fifteen days after the due date, 5% of the total payable amount After fifteen days and up to one month after due date, 10% of the total payable amount Students will only be allowed to appear in final exam after deposit of outstanding dues along with fine Payment of fees can be made through online Transfer/Bank Draft/Pay order against the fee challan issued at any online branch of HBL (Nationwide). Note: Cheques and Cash are not acceptable.
Several elite National Research & Development (R&D) organizations provide sponsorships to the deserving BS students of selected programs after test/interview. The sponsorship covers tuition fee and a guaranteed job after graduation, provided all requirements of the sponsoring organization are fulfilled by the candidate. IST offers merit scholarships to three students (excluding sponsored students) in each discipline as per the existing policy. Scholarships are granted on the basis of admissions merit and semester results. Below mentioned criteria shall be followed for the award of merit scholarships to BS students of each batch of each undergraduate program offered by IST:- GENERAL CONDITIONS: IST offers merit scholarships to two students (excluding sponsored students) in each discipline as per existing policy. Scholarships are granted on the basis of semester results. Below mentioned criteria shall be followed for the award of merit scholarships to students of each batch of each MS program offered by IST:- GENERAL CONDITIONS: Higher Education Commission (HEC) with the support of Government of Pakistan has launched “EHSAAS Undergraduate Scholarship Project” for the qualified students from low income families to complete undergraduate studies (Four-Five-year Bachelor programs) from public sector Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) of Pakistan, Azad Jammu & Kashmir, and Gilgit Baltistan. The principle objective of the EHSAAS Undergraduate Project is to provide assistance to the maximum number of students who have secured admission to the universities in various disciplines but lack of financial means to continue their studies. The needy students admitted in IST are informed to apply for EHSAAS Scholarship as and when announced by HEC. Pakistan has no shortage of talented youth, but in several instances, lack of resources prevents them from realizing their potentials. This becomes more problematic when it comes to accessing higher education. The Government of Pakistan acknowledges these constraints and has tasked Higher Education Commission to facilitate the needy and deserving students through Need Based Scholarships. Scholarships are announced for financially disadvantaged students of as many as 94 public sector universities and their campuses. The needy students admitted in IST are informed to apply for HEC Need Based Scholarship after the completion of admission process subject to availability of funds/seats. The Punjab Educational Endowment Fund (PEEF) under guidance of the Board of Directors is providing opportunities to the talented but needy students to fulfill their dreams and aspirations and at the same time to become partner in the development and welfare of Pakistan. The PEEF, since its inception in 2009 has awarded more than 374,000 scholarships to students of Punjab and other provinces which are currently pursuing education through public and private sector institutions. Needy students, admitted in IST, can also apply for this scholarship. The details are available at Interest free loans are also provided to IST students by National Bank of Pakistan (NBP). The process to apply for loan and other details are available at
Scholarships are available for Foreign Students to study in Bachelor/ Master/ Doctoral Degree Programs offered by IST. Duration of Scholarship: For BS (Bachelor’s) Students: Upto 04 years For MS (Master’s) Students: Upto 2.5 years For PhD (Doctoral) Students: Upto 04 years The scholarship program covers funds for the following expenses: Mandatory academic & non-academic charges like admission fee, endowment fund, library development fund, service charges, safe/ smart campus charges, hostel charges etc. are not covered. Candidates willing to apply for admission in BS, MS/ PhD programs offered by IST must: Incharge Admissions Focal Person (International Student Office) Email: admissions@ist.edu.pk Contact: +92-51-9075100
Note:
Note:
Admission shall be granted absolutely on merit which will be determined on the basis of marks obtained in the following examinations, and according to theweightagementioned against the respective examination: For MSc (02 years) Students*: Notes:
Admission shall be granted absolutely on merit which will be determined on the basis of marks obtained in the following examinations, and according to the weightage mentioned against the respective examination: For MSc (02 years) Students: Notes:
Step 1 - Admissions Announcement on IST Website/ National Newspapers Graduate (MS & PhD) admissions are announced on IST Website/ National Newspapers twice a year i.e. in April/ May & November/ December. Step 2 - Completion of Online Admission Form Candidates interested to apply for admission in IST are required to visit or to create an online account, read & understand the eligibility & merit determination criteria, fee structure, fee refund policy and other related information. Subsequently, eligible candidates willing to apply for admission in IST are required to complete online admission form by providing desired information and uploading the scan copies of required documents with online admission form. Step 3 - Deposit of Application Processing Fee After creating an online account, applicants are required to download the challan form available at online admission form to deposit of application processing fee (non-refundable) in any online branch of HBL (within due date). It is a mandatory requirement. An email is sent for the confirmation of receipt of application processing fee and in parallel; fee receipt status is also updated at online admission form. In case if the application processing fee status is not updated at online admission within one week after the deposit of application processing fee then such applicants are required to contact Admissions Office with proof through email. Step 4 - Merit Lists/ Admissions Status MS Applicants are required to check their admission status on IST website by using the login details. An email/ SMS is also sent to provisionally selected applicants. However, applicants are strongly advised to keep visiting the IST website for updated information. PhD applicants recommended by the concerned academic department are intimated by Admissions Office through email/ telephone call. Step 5 – Acceptance of Admission Provisionally selected applicants in respective programs are required to download the admission package by accessing the online admission system preferably through IST website. Admission package contain the offer letter, fee challan form/s, an affidavit (write-up), fee refund policy and other documents required to be submitted for registration in IST. Step 6 – Reservation of Seat to avail Hostel/ Transport Facility (optional) After the acceptance of admission offer, on the same page of online admission system, candidates are required to reserve hostel /transport seat (if they want to avail services of IST otherwise skip this section). Transport facility is provided only to the students of Rawalpindi & Islamabad from the designated points. IST have within campus separate hostel facility for male and female students with limited capacity therefore interested applicants can avail hostel facility subject to availability of seats. Step 7 – Deposit of Fee Candidates fulfilling the admissions requirements and willing to join IST are required to deposit the fee in any online branch of HBL within due date mentioned on challan forms. An email/ SMS is also sent for the confirmation of receipt of fee. It is highlighted that fully automated admission system of IST does not allow a late fee option. Therefore, nonpayment of dues within due date will make you in-eligible for admission in IST. Step 8 – Welcome to IST on Registration Day Provisionally admitted students are required to prepare the documents according to Offer Letter for the submission on Registration Day.
*Candidates with FSc Pre-Medical / equivalent qualification enrolled in BS Computer Science program will have to clear deficient Mathematics courses of 6 credit hours, within one year Applicants with ICS (Math, Physics & Computer Science) qualification are allowed to apply for all BS engineering programs offered by IST. However, such candidates will be required to study Chemistry as a remedial subject/ course in the 1st semester after admission. A-Level / Cambridge/ Students with any qualification other than FSC/ ICS/ DAE are required obtain equivalent certificate from IBCC according to the eligibility criteria of respective program. Pre-medical students with additional math or appearing for additional math papers this year are eligible to apply in related programs as per eligibility criteria. HSSC/ A-Level/ Equivalent final result awaiting students of “first annual exams only” are eligible to apply. Such applicants, if selected on merit, will be offered provisional admission and they will be required to submit the HSSC Result Card/ Equivalent Certificate (according to the eligibility requirements of respective program) issued by IBCC in Admissions Office before the start of first semester exams/ within 15 days after the announcement of results (whichever is earlier). DAE (3 Years) students possessing complete/ final DAE result are eligible to apply in related programs as per eligibility criteria. International applicants are also required to fulfill other requirements laid down by the Higher Education Commission (HEC) for the admission of international students in Pakistani Higher Education Institutions/ Universities. In accordance with normal policy in admission matters, the completion of admission requirements within due date shall be the sole responsibility of the student, and non-compliance with the requirements shall result in termination of the admission at the risk and cost of the student. The institute reserves the right to discontinue any portion or make amendments in General Eligibility Criteria at any time without notice. It is the responsibility of the candidate/ applicant to provide the required academic record/ certificates in time to the University, as per the deadline. The University reserves the right to drop any program, if number of candidates are less than the sufficient number to offer the program.
ST doesn’t conduct its own entry test. The results of following entry tests are acceptable to apply for admission in undergraduate programs offered by IST. Applicants can appear in any one of the below mentioned tests and can use the higher score to apply for admission in IST. Please note that an applicant must have minimum 33% obtained marks in entry test to apply for admission in IST: Further details related to acceptable entry tests dates & categories are as under:
Step 1 - Admissions Announcement on IST Website/ National Newspapers Undergraduate (BS) admissions are announced on IST Website/ National Newspapers once a year i.e. in April/ May. Step 2 - Completion of Online Admission Form Candidates interested to apply for admission in IST are required to visit or to create an online account, read & understand the eligibility & merit determination criteria, fee structure, fee refund policy and other related information. Subsequently, eligible candidates willing to apply for admission in IST are required to complete online admission form by providing desired information and uploading the scan copies of required documents with online admission form. Step 3 - Deposit of Application Processing Fee After creating an online account, applicants are required to download the challan form available at online admission form to deposit of application processing fee (non-refundable) in any online branch of HBL (within due date). It is a mandatory requirement. An email is sent for the confirmation of receipt of application processing fee and in parallel; fee receipt status is also updated at online admission form. In case if the application processing fee status is not updated at online admission within one week after the deposit of application processing fee then such applicants are required to contact Admissions Office with proof through email. Step 4 - Merit Lists/ Admissions Status Applicants are required to check their admission status on IST website by using the login details. An email/ SMS is also sent to provisionally selected applicants. However, applicants are strongly advised to keep visiting the IST website for updated information. Step 5 – Acceptance of Admission Provisionally selected applicants in respective programs are required to download the admission package by accessing the online admission system preferably through IST website. Admission package contain the offer letter, fee challan form/s, an affidavit (write-up), fee refund policy and other documents required to be submitted for registration in IST. Step 6 – Reservation of Seat to avail Hostel/ Transport Facility (optional) After the acceptance of admission offer, on the same page of online admission system, candidates are required to reserve hostel /transport seat (if they want to avail services of IST otherwise skip this section). Transport facility is provided only to the students of Rawalpindi & Islamabad from the designated points. IST have within campus separate hostel facility for male and female students with limited capacity therefore interested applicants can avail hostel facility subject to availability of seats. Step 7 – Deposit of Fee Candidates fulfilling the admissions requirements and willing to join IST are required to deposit the fee in any online branch of HBL within due date mentioned on challan forms. An email/ SMS is also sent for the confirmation of receipt of fee. It is highlighted that fully automated admission system of IST does not allow a late fee option. Therefore, nonpayment of dues within due date will make you in-eligible for admission in IST and consideration in subsequent merit lists and no request is entertained in this regard. Step 8 – Welcome to IST on Registration Day Provisionally admitted students are required to prepare the documents according to Offer Letter for the submission on Registration Day.
The institute reserves the right to discontinue any portion or make amendments in Merit Determination Criteria at any time without notice. It is the responsibility of the candidate/ applicant to provide the required academic record/ certificates in time to the University, as per the deadline. The University reserves the right to drop any program, if number of candidates are less than the sufficient number to offer the program.
Lab Engineer MS - Global Navigation Satellite Systems, Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Global Navigation Satellite Systems, Physicsadnan.ashraf@ist.edu.pk
Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering)University of Engg & Tech PeshawarArea of Specialization:Design and Manufacturing, QA/QC, Metrology
Assistant Professor PhD (Electrical and Electronic Engineering) University of Surrey, UKArea of Specialization:Signal Processing for Wireless Communication92.51.9075528adnan.zafar@ist.edu.pk
The Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics maintains internationally recognized academic programs in Aerospace engineering via ongoing consultation with students, faculty, industry, and aerospace professionals. Results of these consultations are used in a process of continuous academic improvement to provide the best possible education for our students. The aerospace engineer is primarily concerned with the design, analysis, testing, and overall operation of vehicles which operate in air, water, and space. The curriculum is designed to provide the student with an education in the fundamental principles of aerodynamics, flight dynamics, propulsion, structural mechanics, flight controls, design, testing, and space technologies. A wide variety of opportunities awaits the aerospace engineering graduate in research, development, design, production, sales, and management in the aerospace industry, and in many related industries in which fluid flow, control, and transportation problems play major roles.
The mission of aerospace engineering program is to prepare technically strong engineers for wide ranging careers such that they can contribute effectively towards the nation, society, and aerospace industry through innovation, research, entrepreneurship, leadership, technology and healthy life-long learning attitude. Aerospace is the human effort in science, engineering and business to fly in the atmosphere of Earth (aeronautics) and surrounding space (astronautics). Thus it is a field where state-of-the-art technologies are applied every day. It is an exciting profession with outstanding career opportunities in which physical sciences, mathematics and computers are combined in the design of air and space vehicle systems and components to achieve high performance with limited size and weight. This requires aerospace engineers to constantly develop and apply the most advanced technologies in research, design, manufacturing, operation, or maintenance of an Aerospace Vehicle. Aerospace technology has grown out of the problems of design, construction, and operation of vehicles that maneuver above the Earth’s surface (vehicles ranging from ground-effect machines and helicopters to aircraft and spacecraft). Design of such vehicles has always been challenging, not only because of the requirement that they operate in a hostile environment, but also the high premium placed on light weight, high efficiency and great reliability. These requirements apply not only to future spacecraft and high performance transport aircraft, but also to the next generation of ground transportation, such as high-speed trains, over-water transportation, and automated motor vehicles. Aerospace engineering degree program provides graduates with the technical foundation they need to enter the field of Aeronautics & Astronautics. It will prepare them to apply engineering principles, processes and practices to evaluate, analyze, design and develop aerospace systems, and their maintenance. Focused on the field requirements for airborne/spaceborne platforms, the four-year program encompasses the study of aerodynamics, propulsion, aerospace structures, flight dynamics, navigation guidance and control with application of knowledge during aerospace vehicle design. The program imparts knowledge of basic engineering technology as well as practical knowhow for readiness of engineers to cope up the challenges being faced by organizations in Aerospace industry. The field of aerospace technology offers a wide range of employment opportunities to those with the proper educational background. An aerospace team is made up of engineers, scientists, and technicians. Positions are available through the private sector as well as within the government sector. Examples of major engineering roles in the aerospace industry include:
PEO-01: Exhibit knowledge, skills and competence in design and investigation of complex engineering problems using suitable tools. PEO-02: Conscious contribution towards ethical, social and environmental responsibilities as an engineer by sustainable solution designing and implementation. PEO-03: Demonstrate effective communication skills to reflect purpose clarity in complex situations, either individually or as a part of a team. PEO-04: Practice professional management skills and an aptitude for lifelong learning with an aim to maintain balance of life. PEO-1: Produce Aerospace Engineers with a strong practical and theoretical exposure in the relevant disciplines, who are able to contribute to society through innovation, enterprise and leadership PEO-2: Nurture engineer with a global outlook and to provide technological leadership through necessary technological tools PEO-3: Produce engineers with teamwork, communication and interpersonal skills PEO-4: Enable them to be productive members of interdisciplinary engineering teams and are further capable to adopt to changing environments of engineering, technology and society PEO-5: Produce engineers with high moral and ethical values PEO-6: Inculcate critical thinking among students and develop initiatives and innovative ideas PEO-1: Produce GNSS Professionals with a strong practical and theoretical exposure who are able to contribute to society through innovation, enterprise and leadership PEO-2: Nurture GNSS Graduates with a global outlook and to provide technological leadership through necessary technological tools PEO-3: Produce GNSS Professionals with teamwork, communication and interpersonal skills PEO-4: Enable them to be productive members of interdisciplinary teams and are further capable to adopt to changing environments of science, engineering, technology and society PEO-5: Produce professionals with high moral and ethical values PEO-6: Inculcate critical thinking among students and develop initiatives and innovative ideas
Head of Department PhD (Structural Design of Flight Vehicle)Aeronautical & Astronautical Science and TechnologySchool of Astronautics, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an, ChinaArea of Specialization: Structural Design & AnalysisHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Professor PhD(Chemical Engineering) University of Pittsburgh, USA MS(Chemical Engineering) University of Pittsburgh, USAArea of Specialization: Propulsion Systems, Computational Engineering Professor (Adjunct Faculty) PhD (Flight Mechanics)Georgia Institute of Technology, USAMS (Flight Mechanics)Georgia Institute of Technology, USAArea of Specialization: Flight Mechanics, Automatic Control Professor MSc Aerospace Propulsion, Cranfield University, UK. PhD Aircraft Propulsion, Cranfield University, UK.Area of Specialization: Gas Turbines Performance (Modelling & Simulation) Assistant Professor MS (Aerospace Engineering)Iowa State University, USAMS (Engineering Management)CASE, Islamabad PakistanArea of Specialization: Aerospace Structures, Mechanics of Composite materials, Damage tolerance analysis, Finite Element modelling and analysis Assistant Professor PhD (Automation and Robotics) Northwestern Polytechnical University, China MS (Control Systems) University of Toulouse (UPS), FranceArea of Specialization: Controls, Automation and Robotics Assistant Professor PhD Beihang University, ChinaArea of Specialization: Solid MechanicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Electrical Engineering), University of Engineering and Technology Taxila, PakistanArea of Specialization: Control Systems Assistant Professor Phd Aerospace Engineering University of Dayton, OHIO USAArea of Specialization: Fluid Dynamics Assistant Professor M. Phil (Fluid Dynamics) ENSHM, INPG, FranceArea of Specialization: Fluid Dynamics Assistant Professor Phd Aerospace Engineering (Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Turbomachinery Machine Learning Artificial Neural Networks) Institute of Space Technology MS Mechanical Engineering (Power) Mirpur University of Science and Technology MBA (Executive) COL Allama Iqbal Open UniversityArea of Specialization: Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Turbomachinery Machine Learning Artificial Neural Networks Lecturer MS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Experimental Aerodynamics, Renewable Energy Lecturer MS (Mechatronics Engineering), National University of Sciences and Technology, PakistanArea of Specialization: Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS) Lecturer MS (Aerospace Engineering), Northwestern Polytechnical University, ChinaArea of Specialization: Aero Vehicle Design Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech, Lahore MS (Mechanical Engineering) National University of Science & Tech, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnostics of Mechanical Systems, Vibration Analaysis and balancing of Turbomachinery Lab Engineer MS (Engineering Management)Capital University of Science and TechnologyBS (Engineering Sciences (Simulation and Modeling)Ghulam Ishaq Khan University of Science and TechnologyArea of Specialization: Engineering Management Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Computational Fluid Dynamics Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Aerodynamic Design & Analysis Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Aerospace Vehicle Design Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Structural Design & Analysis Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Computer Vision & Aerodynamics Research Associate MSc Mechanical Engineering (Applied Mechanics and Design)University of Engineering & Technology TaxilaBSc (Mechanical Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology TaxilaArea of Specialization: Applied Dynamics, Vibration and Balancing of Turbomachinery Research Associate MS (Physics)COMSATS University IslamabadMSc (Physics)University of Sargodha SargodhaBSc (Physics)Govt. College JhangArea of Specialization: Numerical Simulation of Vacuum Systems, Rarefied Simulation Research Associate B.Sc. (Mechanical Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology Taxila, PakistanArea of Specialization: Maintenance/Reliability Engineering Research Associate MS (Chemical Engineering)National University of Sciences & Technology, IslamabadBSc (Chemical Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology, LahoreArea of Specialization: Heat Transfer, Refrigeration
Linked graduate programs are (Split) MS and PhD programs started by IST in collaboration with the following universities. These programs will provide students with an opportunity to gain deeper understanding of the principles of aerospace engineering and other related fields to prepare the students for a successful career in their expanding and dynamic fields of knowledge. The fields of aerospace offers a wide range of employment opportunities to those with the proper educational background. An aerospace team is made up of engineers, scientists, and technicians. Positions are available through the private sector as well as within the government sector. Examples of major engineering roles in the aerospace industry include:
MS Aerospace Engineering is an indigenous MS program started by IST. This will provide students with an opportunity to gain deeper understanding of the principles of Propulsion and will prepare the students for a successful career in this expanding and dynamic field. The field of aerospace technology offers a wide range of employment opportunities to those with the proper educational background. An aerospace team is made up of engineers, scientists, and technicians. Positions are available through the private sector as well as within the government sector. Examples of major engineering roles in the aerospace industry include: Following electives can be studies along with 3 out of 4 compulsory subjects in MS Program in Aerospace Engineering. These electives are combined of all specialization offers under "Local MS Programs" in MS Aerospace Engineering. Along with these electives, one subject (Compulsory of other specialization) related to any field can be studied as per student choice regardless of the specialization. "However the approval of the departmental Advisory Committee is a requisite for the course selection. Request(s) to add/drop a course(s) without the approval of the said committee will not be considered/processed".
Institute of Space Technology, being the pioneer institute in space science, technology and applications reckoned the need of research and qualified human resource in the field of precise positioning, navigation and timing (PNT) and started a specialized Master of Science program in Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) in spring 2014. The program is structured according to the GNSS curriculum proposed and designed by the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) and the only program of its kind in Pakistan and the 4th across the globe after Italy, China and France. The MS GNSS course work covers eight subjects (24 credit hours) covering specific areas of GNSS (theory, technology and applications) followed by a six credit hours research thesis. Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) include constellations of Earth orbiting satellites in Medium Earth Orbits (MEO), networks of ground control and monitoring stations, and of receivers that calculate ground positions by the basic principle of trilateration. At present GNSS include two fully operational global navigation systems, the Global Positioning System (GPS) by US and the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System (GLONASS) by Russia. China has recently completed the launch of Beidou system while GALILEO by Europe is in the final phase of completion. In addition to global navigation systems, India has its own Regional Navigation Satellite System named as IRNSS / NavIC and Japan has the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS). Once all these global and regional systems become fully operational, the user will have access to positioning, navigation and timing signals from more than 100 satellites. In addition to global and regional navigation satellite systems, there are also space based augmentation systems namely the Wide-area Augmentation System (WAAS) by US, the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), the Russian System of Differential Correction and Monitoring (SDCM), the Indian GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) and Japanese Multi-functional Transport Satellite (MTSAT) Satellite-based Augmentation Systems (MSAS). GNSS applications offer a cost-effective way of pursuing sustainable growth and provide solution to nearly all the SDGs. The applications and market of GNSS is enormous and employed in all sectors namely space/air/land/marine transportation and management, construction and survey, mining , health, fishing, agriculture, livestock management, space weather monitoring, telecommunications , electric power management, help and rescue, law enforcement, disaster and emergency response, finance and more. Keeping in view the wide application of GNSS, the specific objectives of the graduate program in GNSS are the demonstration and understanding of GNSS constellations, signals, errors, augmentation, sensors integration, receivers and practical applications development. As we move forward in the 21st century, governments and business in developing and industrialized countries are exploring potential growth areas for their national economies. Almost without exception, the most promising option seems to be the outer space, and in particular the satellite positioning, navigation and timing (PNT). GNSS lab at IST is equipped with state of the art multi constellation and multi frequency receivers, training kits and allied equipment with high power workstations to provide students with hands on technical experience. The lab is specially designed for the research in following domains: Dr. Najam Abbas Naqvi (Program Head) Email: Najam.naqvi@ist.edu.pk | Phone: +92(0)-51-907-5578 | +92(0)-321-5041155 GNSS Lab (Lab – 311), Naqvi Block Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad, Pakistan.
Comprehensive examination is conducted after successful completion of PhD course work. Student will be required to appear in comprehensive exam within year after completion of course work. Schedule and structure of this exam will be as per IST policy. Students, who fails in comprehensive exam, will be allowed only once to reappear, failing which, the PhD-studentship will be terminated from IST After successfully passing comprehensive exam, a student will write research proposal and present/defend proposal in front of DBGS. The presentation/defense of proposal will be accepted or rejected by DBGS On the successful completion of research work, the student will write a detailed report/ thesis about research outcome. This thesis/ report will then be recommended by DGBS. Moreover, A plagiarism check will also be and endorsed by the respective supervisor as per HEC policy. After getting a clearance certificate, this thesis will be sent to the international reviewer of technologically advanced countries (see guidelines of HEC for the advance countries list) and national expert of the relevant research area. An open defense of the thesis after positive feedback from foreign and national expert will be arranged. This defense will be conducted in the presence of defense committee and general audience. A viva meeting between candidate and defense committee to discuss corrections required in the dissertation will be held and the candidate will be informed about the outcome of defense PhD degree will be awarded to the students after completion the following requirements
This department is among the few offering graduate and undergraduate degrees in Aerospace Engineering in Pakistan. Education in Aerospace Engineering at this department focuses on imparting the knowledge to a level that our graduates are successful in their professional careers, including industry, research organizations, government service and academia. Our program prepares students for amicable application of engineering principles, processes and practices to Aerospace systems and their maintenance. We prepare our students to contribute effectively when they have to work as member of an integrated team through effective communication with other team members, supervisors, and clients. The programs inculcate among students a strong sense of civic, professional and ethical responsibility. In a short span since inception, we have made our place among the top engineering institutions of the country. We are proud that today our graduates are successfully contributing in the development of new products, conduct of original research and implementation of solutions to relevant field problems in various disciplines of Engineering in country and abroad. Our programs strive to develop innovation capacity along with passion for lifelong learning. The department has faculty members with specialization, research and diversified experience in design, maintenance and manufacturing. The standards and outcome of technical projects undertaken by the students itself speaks high of their acquired knowledge.We welcome your interest to discover the new horizons in Aeronautics & Astronautics and pursue your career in this dynamic learning environment. HoD Astronautics Department
To serve the community by offering quality education and preparing engineering professionals capable of contributing through sustainable solutions with a focus on research, development, and innovation in Aerospace and allied disciplines.
The Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics has developed Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs) that are supported by our defined Program Educational Objectives. These Program Learning Outcomes relate to the aptitude, awareness and performance that the students acquire with the progression of the program. The following are the PLOs for Aerospace Engineering Program: Engineering Knowledge: An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems Engineering Problem Analysis: An ability to identify, formulate, research literature and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences Design or Development of Solutions: An ability to design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations Investigation: An ability to conduct investigation into complex problems using research based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of information to provide valid conclusions Modern Tool Usage: An ability to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling, to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations. Engineer and Society: An ability to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practices Environment and Sustainability: An ability to understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development Ethics: An ability to apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of engineering practices Individual and Team Work: An ability to function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams and in multi-disciplinary settings Communication: An ability to communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions Project Management: An ability to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member or leader in a team, to manage projects in multidisciplinary environments Life Long Learning: An ability to recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change without disturbing the balance of life
Propulsion is the basic concept of operating and designing of propulsion devices which include engines and power plants. In our labs, students will be able to examine motors, engines, and compressors and strive to improve their performances and reliability. They would be primarily working to design propulsion systems and parts such as propellant systems, engines, pumps, pressurization tanks, and control systems. The concept of aerodynamics is the investigation into the air flow around objects and how it affects their behavior. Our labs contain all the necessary apparatuses required to study and practically apply the laws of aerodynamics and are a valuable resource for engineering project testing, fluid mechanics coursework and alternative energy courses. Control Systems are mostly utilized in the management, commandment, and regulation of devices. In our state-of-the-art labs students shall be able to conduct experiments with the concept of control system analysis and design in time and frequency domain both by classical methods and modern techniques. Mechanics of Materials is the study of characteristics of a material subjected to stresses and strains. Our lab provides the students with basic tools to determine stress, strain and perform deformation analysis, apply methods for determining the effects produced by applying various loads on different materials where they shall be able to use their findings to design structures and components for various aeronautical devices. Equipped with all the necessary tools required for basic knowledge of machines, welding, carpentry and fitting, our workshop technology lab is designed to let students develop the practical workshop skills by gaining basic training on converting technical drawing into practical workshop models. UAV stands for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, something that can fly without a pilot onboard. We have a serviced and fully equipped UAV laboratory at IST. Students can design and fabricate any kind of UAV in the lab with ample space. Most importantly the lab provides laser cutting and 3D printing. Modeling and Simulation Lab provides high end computational facilities to students, faculty and researchers, having modeling & simulation or computational requirements at Institute of Space Technology (IST). This Project lab is established to provide software based solutions to engineering problems by using state of the art computers in a conducive environment. Modeling and Simulation Lab is the host to the IST’s computational research capability that includes high end computational resources. The lab also aims to facilitate collaborative bodies from across the nation. Fluid Dynamics examines and describes the flow of fluids which include liquids and gases. Our labs contain flow measurement devices, flow visualization apparatus, hydraulic pumps, and turbines where students will be able to experimentally demonstrate their knowledge and familiarize themselves with the working principles by recording calculations. Flight vehicle designing relates to the designing of aerial vehicles keeping the important aerodynamics in view. Our lab at IST helps students to specify objectives and constraints and then establish scenarios. Here they can model, create intelligent agents, map strategic objectives, execute simulation and then generate surrogate models. Laboratory instruments need to have high quality and be durable in order to meet the high standards in laboratory technology. Our aerospace instrumentation laboratory carries pressure gauges, temperature controllers, automation sensors, encoders, and other high precision control and monitoring equipment. Information technology is the study, design, development, implementation, support or management of computer-based information systems. We have IT labs supported with sophisticated measurements, meet technical standards, and associated testing activities. Students can perform and confront the unique technical challenges for almost all the scientifically advanced fields here. Structures in aerodynamics and astrodynamics are designed to be lightweight, strong, and robust for them to compete against harsh conditions. In our labs, students will have the chance to design, build, and fly new aircraft concepts which shall help them to work on a variety of structural concepts that impact spacecraft, aircraft and UAS systems.
Aerospace engineering degree program provides graduates with the technical foundation they need to enter the field of Aeronautics & Astronautics. It will prepare them to apply engineering principles, processes and practices to evaluate, analyze, design and develop aerospace systems, and their maintenance. Focused on the field requirements for airborne/space borne platforms, the four-year program encompasses the study of aerodynamics, propulsion, aerospace structures, flight dynamics, navigation guidance and control with application of knowledge during aerospace vehicle design. The program imparts knowledge of basic engineering technology as well as practical knowhow for readiness of engineers to cope up the challenges being faced by organizations in Aerospace industry. The curriculum for undergraduate program in Aerospace Engineering leading to the award of Bachelor of Science degree is approved by Higher Education Commission and accredited by Pakistan Engineering Council. The Aerospace engineering BS program prepares technically strong engineers who can contribute effectively towards the community and related industry through research, entrepreneurship, leadership, and passion for life-long learning.
Lecturer MS (Information Security) NUST PakistanArea of Specialization:Electronic Design, Network Security, Forensics and Cryptography
Lab Engineer MS Aerospace EngineeringInstitute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Structural Design Analysis, Computational Mechanics and Aeroelastic Tailoring
Lab Engineer B.E Mechanical Engineering, PIEASArea of Specialization:Fluid-Thermal Systems
Lecturer MS Electrical Engineering Information Technology University of the PunjabArea of Specialization:RF and Microwave, Nanotechnology
Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering) NUST, PakistanArea of Specialization:Signal ProcessingAbroad for PhD
Professor Ph.D. University of Ulsan, South KoreaArea of Specialization:Piezoelectric materials, synthesis, characterization and their applicationsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorali.hussain@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Electrical Engineering) Hanyang University, South KoreaArea of Specialization:Compressed Sensing, Wireless & Mobile Communication
Assistant Professor PhD (Electronics & Information Engineering) Hong Kong Polytechnic UniversityArea of Specialization:Visible light communication92.51.9075528amena.ejaz@ist.edu.pk
The Advanced Manufacturing Facility (AMF) at IST is established to provide top quality Precision Manufacturing services for R & D and innovative commercial solutions. The all-inclusive manufacturing setup at AMF boasts top of the line machining equipment, a team of highly trained technical experts, and a holistic design-centric philosophy perfected with experience. AMF complements CAE solutions with Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAM) programs through a well-rounded focus on multi-axis toolpath configuration, collision mitigation, and parameter optimization. Products manufactured at AMF are accurate to 0.001 mm and are thoroughly inspected via CMM before delivery to customers. The machining capabilities of AMF go well beyond what is offered in the market that includes fabrication and processing of hard-to-cut materials such as high-carbon steels, titanium, and nickel alloys. AMF has also installed an automation-based technology by incorporating a robot-actuated Computer Integrated Manufacturing setup that achieves remarkable productivity and accuracy by minimizing human intervention. The complete suite of engineering services provided by AMF include:
Get in touch with us for high-end precision manufacturing services and expert consultancy. Advanced Manufacturing Facility, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Institute of Space Technology, 1-Islamabad Expressway, Islamabad 44000 Telephone: 051-9075781Email:
AMF provides R & D consultancy through the state of the art machine and tools readily listed below:
Dr. Asif Israr Professor and Head of Department of Mechanical Engineering Dr. Asif has vast involvement in the field of vibrations and condition monitoring for the last 20+ years. He has worked on several industrial and academic projects involving structural dynamics, vibration analysis, manufacturing, fracture mechanics, and structure health monitoring. Dr. Owaisur Rahman Shah Assistant Professor and Head R & D, Department of Mechanical Engineering Dr. Owais holds a Doctorate from ENSTA Bretagne, France in Characterization of Fiber-Reinforced Polymer Composites. Before joining the IST, he completed his post-Doctoral studies in Development of Shock-Resistant Polymer Matrix Composite Assemblies. His research interests include subtractive precision manufacturing and failure of composites for large structures. Dr. Muhammad Younas Assistant Professor and Office In-Charge Advance Manufacturing Facility Dr. Younas is currently working at the Department of Mechanical Engineering specialized in the area of Manufacturing Engineering with focus on high speed machining of various alloys. His research interests include advanced manufacturing technologies, micromachining, sustainable production as well as optimization strategies to minimize production costs.
To lead academic research and commercial operations in the area of Advanced and Precision Manufacturing. To nurture a culture of R & D among academia, public and private sector organizations and industries by providing solutions and consultancy in Precision Manufacturing. Objectives
Lecturer MS Mathematics NUST, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Differential Equations
Ammara yaseen is Lecturer MS (Data Science) NED University of Engineering and TechnologyArea of Specialization:Data science and Data Visualization
Lecturer MS Clinical PsychologyBahria University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Clinical Psychology/ Counseling and Guidance
The Department of Applied Mathematics & Statistics was established at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) in September 2014. Academic programs and their curricula are designed per the guidelines of the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan to align with modern technologies to bridge the applied and engineering disciplines so that an interdisciplinary research culture may prevail. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence are emerging fields that are integral parts of our undergraduate program. This would help train the students to excel in the fields of new and innovative technologies. This distinguished feature of the department is indeed a modification in the conventional graduate degree programs offered anywhere else. This would help in strengthening the mathematical as well as interdisciplinary foundations of the students. This would train students to make them highly marketable in view of modern challenges and requirements.
The Department of Applied Mathematics & Statistics was established at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) in September 2014. Academic programs and their curricula are designed per the guidelines of the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan to align with modern technologies to bridge the applied and engineering disciplines so that an interdisciplinary research culture may prevail. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence are emerging fields that are integral parts of our undergraduate program. This would help train the students to excel in the fields of new and innovative technologies. This distinguished feature of the department is indeed a modification in the conventional graduate degree programs offered anywhere else. This would help in strengthening the mathematical as well as interdisciplinary foundations of the students. This would train students to make them highly marketable in view of modern challenges and requirements.
Professor/Head of Department PhD (Applied Mathematics)QAU, IslamabadPakistanArea of Specialization: Computational Fluid Dynamics Professor PhD (Statistics)The University of Auckland, New ZealandM.Phil. (Statistics)University of Peshawar, PeshawarArea of Specialization: Bayesian Inference, MCMC Methods, Gravitational Radiation, Bayesian Spectrum Analysis, Parallel Computing. Professor PhD (General & Fundamental Mechanics) Beijing Institute of Technology ChinaArea of Specialization: Non Linear Dynamics, Fluid Mechanics Associate Professor PhD (Applied Mathematics) QAU, Islamabad PakistanArea of Specialization: Fluid Mechanics Associate Professor PhD (General & Fundamental Mechanics) Beijing Institute of Technology ChinaArea of Specialization: Non Linear Dynamics, Fluid Mechanics Associate Professor PhD (Applied Mathematics)QAU, IslamabadPakistanArea of Specialization: Fluid Mechanics Associate Professor PhD (Applied Mathematics)CIIT, Islamabad PakistanArea of Specialization: Computational MathematicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Mathematics) Quaiz E Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Group theory and generalizationsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor Ph.D. (Statistics) Quaid-i-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Survey Sampling, Spatial StatisticsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Algebra) Abdus Salam School of Mathematical Sciences G.C. University, Lahore PakistanArea of Specialization: Singularity Theory, Computer Algebra, Commutative AlgebraHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Computational Mathematics) COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI), IslamabadArea of Specialization: Numerical Methods, Numerical Simulations, Computational Fluid DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Statistics)Quaid-e-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Bayesian Control Chart (Statistics)HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Numerical Analysis) University of Science Malaysia (USM), MalaysiaArea of Specialization: Fractional PDEs, Variable-order fractional PDEs, Theoretical AnalysisHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Lecturer PhD (Mathematics)Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Nonlinear Dynamics and Control TheoryHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Lecturer MS Mathematics NUST, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Differential Equations Lecturer MPhil (Statistics)QAU, IslamabadArea of Specialization: StatisticsEx-Pakistan Leave
The mission of the MS-Mathematics degree program in the Department of Applied Mathematics & Statistics is to prepare graduate manpower to pursue advanced degrees or serve at entry-level employment in interdisciplinary fields related to mathematics, engineering and academia to cater to national demands.
The mission of PhD program is to produce innovative leaders in the field of mathematics who will be able to integrate the roles of researchers, educators and intellectual leaders by conducting original, relevant and rigorous research in the field of mathematics in accordance with national and international demands.
“The Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics (AM&S) of the Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, is the most productive department of IST in terms of its graduate programs (MS and PhD) with very prominent and most demanded interdisciplinary streams: Computational Fluid Dynamics/Fluid Mechanics, Computational Mathematics, Nonlinear Dynamics, Cryptography, Group Theory and Generalization, Algebra/Algebraic Geometry, and Applied Statistics. The undergraduate program in BS-Mathematics has three streams: BS-Mathematics, Mathematics with Data Science and BS-Mathematics with Artificial Intelligence. These modified and highly marketable streams based on cutting-edge technologies enhance the uniqueness of our undergraduate program and shaping the future of students. We started our journey in 2014. Since the beginning, we have been focusing on our students to make them highly marketable in view of modern challenges. Our graduates have been serving in strategic and non-strategic national and international organizations because of their strong background in computational/simulations and mathematical knowledge and skills. AM&S has experienced, dedicated, and passionate faculty who has a hand in modern research and quality teaching per global educational standards and is contributing to the socio-economic development of Pakistan through impactful research and outcomes-based academic practices. As a result, we are producing scientists and engineers fully equipped with modern mathematics tools and knowledge with strong understanding towards real world and engineering problems. The AM&S faculty is committed to transferring knowledge to engineering and science students through a modern interdisciplinary curriculum that leads them towards publishing excellent impactful research related to engineering research problems. AM&S faculty have research linkages and collaborations with leading international universities and organizations. Through its conducive learning environment, AM&S provides the highest zenith of learning to its students, due to which its PhD and MS students have secured postdoctoral and doctoral positions in highly ranked international institutions.”
The Department of Applied Mathematics & Statistics (AM&S) is dedicated to provide students with a firm foundation in research and analysis for developing critical thinking skills, enabling them to pursue advanced degrees and contribute to interdisciplinary fields related to mathematics, engineering, and academia to cater the national demands.
The curriculum for MS/PhD students is designed by the collaboration of mathematicians and engineers. Students undertaking research in this department will have a chance to learn not only the fundamental courses of engineering but also advanced courses related to their area of specialization and interest. Emerging specializations in the domain of engineering, like Nonlinear Dynamics, Computational mathematics and Cryptography, will be offered as area of research for graduate students at this department. As AM&S is also working as supporting department for other engineering and sciences department so upon successful completion of the courses taught by mathematics faculty, students will be able to:
The mission of the program is to provide students with a platform in mathematics that strengthens the foundation of theoretical, applied mathematics, and edge-cutting technologies in students to make them highly marketable regarding their future endeavors. The curriculum for BS student is designed by collaboration of the mathematicians and engineers. Students undertaking research in this department will have a chance to learn not only the fundamental courses of mathematics but also advanced courses in different emerging areas. AM&S is also providing support to other engineering and sciences departments of IST so, upon successful completion of the courses taught by mathematics faculty, students will be able to: PLO-01: Applied and Basic Mathematical Knowledge: An ability to learn basics and apply basic knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of multiplex scientific problems. PLO-02: Problem Analysis & Investigation: An ability to identify, formulate and investigate research literature and analyze complex problems reaching substantiated conclusions using mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. PLO-03: Design/Development of Solutions: An ability to design solutions for emerging problems and design systems, components, or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-04: Modern Tool Usage: An ability to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modeling with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-05: Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, responsibilities, and norms of mathematical practices. PLO-06: Communication: An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing with the scientific community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentations, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-07: Project Management and Team Work: An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply scientific principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment.
Lecturer MS Comsat University Islamabad.Area of Specialization:Control System
Professor PhD (Metallurgy) Institute of Materials Science, University of Connecticut, USAArea of Specialization:Metallurgy
An inspiring day of recognition and achievement! Institute of Space Technology hosted its Annual Awards Ceremony on September 5, 2023 to honor exceptional students with medals, trophies and certificates in sports and co-curricular activities. The prestigious event featured Vice Chancellor IST, Major General Rehan Abdul Baqi HI (M), as the esteemed chief guest, who bestowed well-deserved accolades upon our talented students.
The Astronomy Resource Center (ARC) has been established at IST to provide scientific data on possibility of moon-sighting in various parts of the country on a regular basis and to share information regarding significant astronomical events like solar and lunar eclipse etc. with the public. IST’s Space Science department is involved in research in various domains of astronomy and astrophysics. These include the following. Astrophysical Plasmas: Ionosphere, Solar coronal reheating, galactic magnetic fields, astrophysical jets Galaxy and black hole mergers: N-body simulations, gravitational waves from supermassive black holes High energy astronomy and astrophysics: Gamma-ray bursts, Active Galactic Nuclei, Atmospheric showers, Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes Gravitational wave data analysis: Bayesian inference, Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms, spatial and geostatistics Extra solar planets and binary stars: Contact binaries, semi-detached binaries, photometry Spacecraft environmental interaction: Spacecraft charging, astrophysical dusty plasma Experimental plasma techniques: Plasma thruster, experimental plasma technique, electron cyclotron emission Researchers at IST are also member of the future gravitational wave detector LISA consortium. The IST observatory has 10 and 16 inches telescopes used for carrying out observations of various astronomical objects, as well as teaching and demonstration purposes. The observatory also arranges observations of the Moon, planets and other astronomical objects and carries out public outreach activities.
Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Materials Engineering
Snr. Research Associate BE (Mechanical Engineering)NED University of Engg & Tech, KarachiArea of Specialization:Mechanical Manufacturing & Design
Professor PhD (Statistics)The University of Auckland, New ZealandM.Phil. (Statistics)University of Peshawar, PeshawarArea of Specialization:Bayesian Inference, MCMC Methods, Gravitational Radiation, Bayesian Spectrum Analysis, Parallel Computing. 92.51.9075544asad.ali@ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Experimental Aerodynamics, Renewable Energy
Lab Associate MPhil Physics, Quaid-I-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Particle Physics, Radiation Physicsasad.munir@ist.edu.pk
Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)Air University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Electronics and Embedded Systems
Irfan Majid holds a post graduate avionics degree in Avionics Engineering & presently is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. He is a seasoned Avionics Engineer with over thirty years’ experience. His work experience includes avionics maintenance & testing, life cycle support, R&D work for avionics systems of manned and unmanned aircraft. He is Senior Member of IEEE and nominated on Avionics System Panel of IEEE Aerospace Electronics System Society. The panel promotes avionics related activities worldwide and provides guidance for R&D work. His current research areas include certification for AI/ML in safety critical avionics systems, Communications Navigation & Surveillance (CNS) systems architectures for Urban Air Mobility and Aircraft Electromagnetic Compatibility analysis. He has authored a number of research publications and a book chapter. He regularly offers tutorials in Digital Avionics System Conference. Dr. Suhail Akhtar, Fellow Royal Aeronautical Society, received his B.Eng. degree from NED University, Karachi, Pakistan. He holds a DEA in Control Systems from Université de Technologie de Compiègne, France and MS and PhD Degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Michigan, USA. His research interests include non-linear dynamics state estimation and control for aerospace applications, aircraft dynamics at high angles of, adaptive disturbance rejection and H_8 attitude estimation and control on SO(3). Dr. Israr Hussain holds a Doctorate degree from University of Manchester, UK. Currently HoD of Department of Avionics Engineering. He is an experienced Avionics engineer with over thirty years of experience. His research areas are Image Processing and synthetic vision. He has actively worked in implementation of image processing algorithms on FPGAs. Since 2002 he has held various teaching and management positions in academic institutions. Dr. Muhammad Abdul Rehman Khan is a Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. He is a highly experienced Avionics Engineer with almost forty years’ experience. His experience with avionics systems encompasses maintenance, life cycle support, integration and design & development. His MS & PhD is in the field of Communication systems and has worked in design of Microwave and Millimeter wave links. His doctorate thesis was related to system capacity analysis of communication systems an important element of CNS avionics. Sardar Ahmad holds a post graduate degree in Avionics Engineering and currently is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. He extensive field as well as R&D experience in military Avionics Systems. He is certified in Avionics integration from SAGEM France and specializes in VX Works for RTOS based development. He also has rich experience of Aircraft Simulator Design. Muhammad Zahid is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Avionics Engineering. His areas of expertise are electronics, avionics, data & computer communications, project management and human factors engineering. He has rich experience in various areas of Engineering (Electronics / Avionics / Data & Computer communications / Human Factors Engineering), Project Management, Technical / Maintenance Management, Research & Development and Teaching / Training to bring about a positive change within and beyond the scope of his influence.
Flight Control Systems With the ever increasing demand for greater degrees of agility and autonomy of aerospace vehicles, has led to major strides in flight control algorithms and system architectures. There laboratory maintains strong multidisciplinary systems orientation that focuses on linear and nonlinear systems, dynamic optimization, feedback control, optimal path planning and decision-making in uncertain environments as well as computational and software aspects of flight systems. The current graduate research in the lab is focused satellite attitude control as well as flight planning and flight control of dynamically unstable aircraft using H-infinity control methods on SO(3) and lie groups in general along with AI enabled real time trajectory generation for complex flight maneuvers involving post stall flight regimes. For undergraduate students the lab supports and complements the theory courses in flight dynamics & controls, with actuated simulation platforms and experiments to emphasize implementation issues, as well as case studies of specific aerospace vehicles. Autonomous Guidance and Navigation Systems A surging interest in space launch operations and in Advanced Air Mobility (AAM) concepts is exacerbating the limitations of current practices, still heavily reliant on airspace segregation and not supporting the multimodal/intermodal evolution of air and space transport. For a successful integration of these new transport modes, it is critical that an acceptable level of safety is provided, requiring the development of novel digital tools (e.g., mission planning and decision support systems) that utilize advanced Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to allow a seamless integration of space operations in the current ATM network. The research work explores the role of Aerospace CPS (ACPS) and AI research to enable the safe, efficient and sustainable development of the air and space transport sector in the next decade. While the technical maturity of propulsive and vehicle technologies is relatively high, there are several opportunities and challenges associated with the adoption of CPS and AI to enable the integration of point-to-point suborbital spaceflight with conventional atmospheric air transport. Current research aims at developing robust and fault-tolerant CPS architectures that ensure trusted autonomous air/space transport operations with the given hardware constraints, despite the uncertainties in physical processes, the limited predictability of environmental conditions, the variability of mission requirements, and the possibility of both cyber and human errors. CNS architectures for Urban Air Mobility The long outstanding human inspiration to be able to traverse intra-city destinations aerially, avoiding traffic congestions is on the brink of materialization. Flight trials of Air Taxis paves the way for Urban Air Mobility (UAM). However, the greater challenge resides in formulating the Urban Air Traffic Management (UATM) structure and procedures to enable multiple aircraft to safely navigate their way in urban skies. The key technologies enabling UATM are Communications, Navigation and Surveillance (CNS) systems. This paper presents proposed configuration for CNS System to support UATM. Aircraft for UAM are supposed to operate within the aerial bounds of the cities away from conventional air traffic. Thus air traffic would be much dense and the Air Traffic Management (ATM) system required to control air mobility must provide integrity, robustness, security and high geo-spatial accuracy. Additionally, there is also a need for fast and accurate communication between traffic controller and the air vehicle. Communication requirements for UAM include Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V), Vertiport to vertiport and Vertiport to Vehicle communication. Navigation requires Self-positioning and Situational-awareness. Surveillance needs to be able to perform Ground stations detecting and tracking aircraft, position and Identification update. Research work in this area focuses on proposing viable CNS architectures for UAM and validating their performance. Integration of UAS in National Air Space< There is an increasing need to fly Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) in the National Airspace System (NAS) to perform missions of vital importance to national security and defense, emergency management, science, and to enable commercial applications. However, routine access by UAS to the NAS remains unrealized. The UAS community needs routine access to the global airspace for all classes of UAS. Based on this need, the research aims to explore technologies to aid integration of UAS in NAS ensuring complete harmonization and interoperability between Piloted and Uninhibited aerial platforms, ensuring all the safety requirements of air traffic management. Certification of AI/ML in safety critical avionics Aviation safety certification is established upon verifying that all possible in flight occurrences have been perceived and verified. Whereas, in case of AI via machine-learning real-time software evolution cannot be perfectly predicted and verified in advance, this is the real challenge to certification. One solution is to specify machine learning functional boundaries in correlation with real-time monitoring and validation of machine learning solution. Implementation can be sequential with practical ground-based AI for scheduling and routing being the starting point. Next in line will be simpler, non-flight critical functions and finally moving on to flight or safety critical systems. The validation of certification requires that the final product operates in all modes and performs consistently and successfully under all actual operational and environmental conditions founded on conformance to the applicable specifications. In case of adaptive AI systems this can again be a difficult condition to prove. The research work in this area encompasses implementation of AI/ML techniques in a manner so as to be certifiable. Also amendments in certification processes to support usage of AI/ML in safety critical avionics is explored. Human Factors in Aviation Research work in this area covers wide range of issues that affect how people perform tasks in their work and non-work environments (especially those related to aviation safety, aircraft maintenance, flight, etc.). The study of human factors involves applying scientific knowledge about the human body and mind, to better understand human capabilities and limitations to achieve best possible fit between people and the system. Furthermore, this course aims to build social and personal skills (for example: communication and decision making) in order to improve safety and performance. Implementation of Human Machine Interactive Interface is an active domain of research.
Trainings We provide fundamental to advanced level trainings related to following areas both at our premises and online: Consultancies As our team has rich practical experience we are available to provide consultancies related to the design of all avionics and flight control systems. Collaborative Research We are willing to carry out joint research with any other group working in the mentioned areas of research.
Avionics system design lab is engaged in the design & development of safety critical, complex cyber physical systems. The knowledge base is applicable to all airborne and autonomous systems where safety is paramount. This Lab serves the dual purpose of practically educating undergraduate avionics engineering students in the advanced concepts of Avionics System Design & conducting research work in the field of Avionics Engineering. The lab is well equipped to carry out avionics integration work based on Mil-Std-1553B and ARINC-429 data buses. The whole process of the design of certifiable, safety critical avionics systems inclusive of complete System Safety Analysis (in accordance with SAE-4754A/ED-79A & SAE 4761A/ED/84A) and Model Based Design methodology as per RTCA DO-331/ED-218 is demonstrated in the lab. System prototypes comprising software and hardware are developed in line with RTCA DO-178C/ED-12C & RTCA DO-254/ED-80. The research work is focused both on the spheres of onboard Avionics and CNS+A (Communication, Navigation and Surveillance Avionics) Systems. Key research domains are: -
Lecturer MS Electrical Engineering Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Signals and Image processing
Research Officer BSc (Physics)University of SargodhaMSc (Physics)Quaid-i-Azam University IslamabadArea of Specialization:Magnetic Material Alloys, Material Characterization
Professor/Head of Department PhD University of Glasgow, UKArea of Specialization:DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075477asif.israr@ist.edu.pk Prof. Dr. Asif Israr received his Ph.D. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK in 2008. His research focused on the modeling, design, and analysis of cracked structures in response to vibration input. His research resulted in several conference and journal papers of international repute. He won several research grants from HEC-NRPU and R&D Organizations. He is with the Institute of Space Technology (IST) since 1999 and performed extremely well in all key positions. At present, he is the Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. His research interests include linear and nonlinear modeling of dynamical systems, applied mechanics, methods of approximate analytical solutions to ODE-based models, application of the principles of nonlinear dynamics to problems in structural vibration, energy harvesting, finite element analysis, and renewable energy. He is actively involved in a new concept of developing energy through wind, the development of metamaterials for low-frequency noise control, and shock energy absorbing devices. Other than academics, he is one of the pioneers in the establishment of IST, founder of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and its infrastructure, and the Centre for Vibration Testing and Condition Monitoring (CVCM).
Head of Department PhD Foundation University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Applied Linguistics and Literature92.51.9075561ausima.sultan@ist.edu.pk
Avionics is one of the key components of Aeronautics and Astronautics that focuses on electrical, electronics and computing aspects of aircraft and spacecraft. Avionics and Aerospace Systems blend together to make the amazing aerial and space vehicles of the modern era a reality. However, the avionics systems not only constitute the on-board electronics systems but a number of ground based systems that help in Air Traffic Management, namely, communication, navigation and surveillance systems. Avionics systems are primarily complex cyber physical systems that comply with ultra-high reliability criteria to meet design requirements of safety critical aviation and space borne systems. Even autonomous surface and marine vehicles use design processes developed for avionics systems. As such, avionics is a broad based applied field and avionics engineers acquire practical knowledge of multiple domains of electrical, computing and aerospace disciplines. In the Department of Avionics Engineering we are committed to imparting practical knowledge and skills to our students, which makes them a very sought after candidates for a wide range of engineering outfits, both military and commercial. We have state of the art labs equipped with most relevant systems. We boast a faculty that is not only academically highly qualified but also carries vast and varied experience of working in prime aviation and space related organizations. Our hallmark is the personal interaction we maintain with all our students. Owing to their versatile knowledge base, the employment percentage of our graduates is higher than other disciplines .
The Department of Avionics aims to prepare Avionics Engineering students well-groomed in broad-base technical knowledge especially in the field of Avionics Engineering and capable of meeting industrial requirements and carrying forward contemporary research in continually evolving areas of Avionics Architecture, Radars, Guidance & Navigation, for Aerial and space borne systems and applications. The term avionics emanates from combining aviation and electronics. The scope of Avionics not only encompasses the electronic systems installed on all Aerospace Vehicles, be it aircraft or spacecraft, but also ground based surveillance and support systems. Avionics systems include Fly-By-Wire Flight Control Systems, Human Machine Interface, navigation systems, communications systems, vehicle health management systems, sensors, networking, flight and air traffic management systems. With Avionics Systems constituting almost forty percent of the overall aircraft cost, avionics is a multi-billion dollar industry word wide and rapidly flourishing. The essence of Avionics is to design for Space Weight and Power constrained environment where safety criticality is the overriding factor. Resultantly, avionics engineering is applicable not only to air borne and space borne platforms but all autonomous systems where safety is paramount, self-driving cars being a prime example. The futuristic transportation systems like Urban Air Mobility and Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) will further enhance the scope of Avionics Engineering. Avionics Engineers are employed by Avionics Original Equipment Manufacturers, Avionics Systems Integrators, Airlines, Maintenance Repair Overhaul Centers, Unmanned Aerial System Manufacturers, Manufacturers and operators of Air Traffic Surveillance Systems, Air Forces, Space Craft designers, Aviation Regulatory organizations and designers of safety critical autonomous systems. This degree program provides graduates with the technical foundation they need to enter the field of avionics engineering technology. It will prepare them to apply engineering principles, processes and practices to evaluate, analyze, design and develop avionics systems, and their maintenance. Focused on the in-demand field of airborne electronic systems, the four-year program encompasses the study of aerodynamics, propulsion, aerospace structures, digital communication, avionics network technology, radar, navigation guidance & flight control systems. The program imparts knowledge of basic engineering technology as well as practical avionics knowhow for readiness of engineers to cope up the challenges in the field faced by national and international organizations. Avionics engineering students also undertake the coursework, which is essential to understand how the data is processed by different avionics systems for control and effective operation of an aerospace vehicle. During the course of studies, they are also familiarized with flight data recording systems and transmission of real time information from vehicle to the controller. The contemporary trends in aviation to make the air space denser and denser with a vast spectrum of aircraft ranging from small UAVs to supersonic commercial aircraft has opened a multitude of research areas related to Avionics. The safety criticality aspects of Avionics imply special adoption steps, Artificial Intelligence that is largely used in other systems is required to meet avionics certification mandates. Developing certifiable AI based avionics systems is a key research area. Development of Communication, Navigation and surveillance systems to make air traffic management of such a huge volume of hybrid mix of aerial platforms and their integration in National Air Space is another challenging area. Rapidly reducing space, weight and power requirements in Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) and small size satellites calls for developing small Multifunction Integrated RF Front Ends and Antennas. Concept of connected aircraft warrants robust and efficient communication systems for networked operations. Reliance on networks and increased role of software in systems also brings to focus the research required in Cyber Security of Avionics Systems. To make Urban Air Mobility a possibility in near future substantial resources are being allocated to conduct research in developing avionics architectures for the aerial platforms and supporting Urban Air Management systems. Avionics is a perpetually evolving field and in contemporary times numerous exciting research areas have emerged where avionics engineers can apply their expertise to formulate feasible solutions to impending challenges.
To produce professionally competent and ethical Avionics Engineering graduates who are capable of meeting contemporary and future industrial and technological challenges as team members, team leaders and entrepreneurs
The mission of the Avionics Engineering Department is to prepare technically sound engineers and researchers who can contribute effectively towards nation building and societal progress through innovation, research, leadership and entrepreneurship in Avionics Engineering and related technological domains.
Professor/Head of Department Ph.D. from The University of Manchester, UKArea of Specialization: Signals & Image Processing Professor PhD Beihang University, Beijing, ChinaArea of Specialization: Secure Communications & Information Systems Professor PhD Queen's University Belfast, UKArea of Specialization: Antennas for Space and Land Communications Professor PhD University of Michigan Ann Arbor, USAArea of Specialization: Flight Dynamics & Control Associate Professor & Director ORIC PhD The Hong Kong University of Science and TechnologyArea of Specialization: Modelling Simulation and Control Assistant Professor MS NUST CAEArea of Specialization: Avionics Assistant Professor MS George Washington University, USAArea of Specialization: Data and Computer Communications Assistant Professor MS NUST IslamabadArea of Specialization: Avionics Lecturer MS Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Deep-learning, Machine Learning, Computer Vision and Image ProcessingAbroad for PhD Lecturer MS Comsat University Islamabad.Area of Specialization: Control System Lecturer MS National University of Science & TechnologyArea of Specialization: Control Systems, Power Electronics, Electric Machines &Drives, Electric Vehicles Lecturer MS Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Wireless Communication Systems and Antenna Arrays Lecturer MS Institute of Space Technology Area of Specialization: Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition Lecturer MS Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Wireless Communication Systems Lab Engineer BS Avionics Engineering Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: RF & Microwave, Digital Signal Process, Radar Absorbing Materials Lab Engineer BS Avionics Engineering Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Avionics System Design and Radar Systems
Avionics Engineering is a relatively new but increasingly popular program at the Institute of Space Technology. The program was initially started under the auspices of the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics in 2015, but with an exponential growth in its popularity amongst freshmen and increasing relevance to the changing technological landscape, it has been granted a full-fledged department status in 2020. To remain true to our ethos of knowledge innovation, we have acquired the services of outstanding faculty who, along with the necessary academic credentials, have vast experience of research and development in the field of avionics systems. This perfect blend of theoretical knowledge and practical experience has allowed the nascent department to inherent a privileged reputation for quality teaching and solution oriented research. Now that we stand at the cusp of the era of ubiquitous autonomous systems, this department intends to lead from the front. Avionics Engineering is a technological domain in which feedback control, communication, multi-physics sensors, embedded systems, integrated RF front ends, next generation air traffic management systems, and AI/ML based systems empower fully autonomous operations of airborne & space borne platforms, enabling futuristic concepts of urban air mobility to become a reality, with hitherto unprecedented full spectrum situational awareness along with extreme maneuverability. If this description sets your “intellectual pulse” racing, then the Department of Avionics Engineering is for you. A bold and glorious future beckons and I invite you to be a part of that glorious future! Head of Department Avionics Engineering Department
The following state-of-the-art laboratories are available for experimentation and research.
The term avionics emanates from combining aviation and electronics. The scope of Avionics not only encompasses the electronic systems installed on all Aerospace Vehicles, be it aircraft or spacecraft, but also ground based surveillance and support systems. Avionics systems include Fly-By-Wire Flight Control Systems, Human Machine Interface, navigation systems, communications systems, vehicle health management systems, sensors, networking, flight and air traffic management systems. With Avionics Systems constituting almost forty percent of the overall aircraft cost, avionics is a multi-billion-dollar industry word wide and rapidly flourishing. The essence of Avionics is to design for Space Weight and Power constrained environment where safety criticality is the overriding factor. Resultantly, avionics engineering is applicable not only to air borne and space borne platforms but all autonomous systems where safety is paramount, self-driving cars being a prime example. The futuristic transportation systems like Urban Air Mobility and Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) will further enhance the scope of Avionics Engineering. Avionics Engineers are employed by Avionics Original Equipment Manufacturers, Avionics Systems Integrators, Airlines, Maintenance Repair Overhaul Centers, Unmanned Aerial System Manufacturers, Manufacturers and operators of Air Traffic Surveillance Systems, Air Forces, Space Craft designers, Aviation Regulatory organizations and designers of safety critical autonomous systems. PEO-1: Our graduates will apply the physical, mathematical and engineering sciences to professional practices as an avionics engineer, or when engaged in advanced study. PEO-2: Our graduates will be cognizant of societal context and ethical responsibility, and apply deep working knowledge of technical fundamentals to address society’s needs. PEO-3: Our graduates will function productively on teams as a member or in leadership role and communicate ideas effectively to technical and non- technical audiences. PEO-4: To develop management skills and an aptitude for life-long learning that enables tackling of emerging and future technological challenges
Assistant Professor PhD (Mathematics) Quaiz E Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Group theory and generalizationsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075739ayesha.rafiq@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Software Engineering)NUST PakistanArea of Specialization:Digital Image ProcessingHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Assistant Professor PhD (Management Science)Bahria University, IslamabadMSc (Management Science)CASE, UET Taxila.MSc (Mobile & Distributed Computer Networks)Leeds Metropolitan University, UKArea of Specialization:Networks, Technology & Innovation Management92.51.9075461bilal.khan@ist.edu.pk
Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad organized Capt. Muhammad Fahad Khan Shaheed Tennis Tournament at IST Tennis Court on September 2, 2023. Akeel Khan Won against Barkat Ullah (6-4) (7-5) in the Single Final. Inam Ul Haq and Col Zia Uddin Won against Asad Khan and Qaiser Afzal (6-2) (6-2) in 45 plus Doubles Final. Vice Chancellor IST Major General Rehan Abdul Baqi HI (M) was the chief guest of the tournament and also played an exhibition match.

The Cyber and Information Security Lab (CISL) is a multi-disciplinary state-of-the-art research lab located within the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Institute of Space technology, Islamabad. The lab is staffed with several research fellows - pursuing PhD in Electrical Engg, Mathematics, Communications and Information hiding with faculty members of Computer Science, Electrical Engg, Avionics and Applied Mathematics Department. The research at CISL encompasses design and development of network applications related to cyber security, mobile networks and information hiding. In addition, CISL offers different courses, workshops and seminars related to computer networks, cryptography, information assurance, computer forensics and network security. The mission of the CIS Lab is to promote cutting-edge research in finding security vulnerabilities in systems, computer network application development with a security perspective and to train young professionals from national and international organizations in the field of network security.
HoD Research, Military College of Signals & Director, National Cyber Security Auditing & Evaluation Lab, NUST Haider Abbas (SMIEEE) is a cyber-security scientist who took professional trainings and certifications from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA, Stockholm University, Sweden, IBM and EC-Council. His professional services include - Journal Editorships, Industry Consultations, Workshops Chair, TPC Member and Invited/Keynote Speaker for several international conferences. Dr. Abbas has received several grants and working on scientific projects in USA, EU, KSA and Pakistan. Lab for Information Security and Machine Learning Department of Software and Communications Engineering College of Science and Technology Hongik University (Sejong), Korea Prof. Dr. Seong Oun Hwang received the B.S. degree in Mathematics in 1993 from Seoul National University, M.S. degree in Computer and Communications Engineering in 1998 from Pohang University of Science and Technology, and Ph. D. degree in Computer Science from Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, all in Korea. He worked as Software Engineer at LG-CNS Systems, Inc. from 1994 to 1996. Between 1998 and 2007, I worked for ETRI (Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute) for ten years as Senior Researcher. Since March 2008, I have been with Hongik University as Professor in Department of Software and Communications Engineering. His research interests include cryptography, network and machine learning. Department of Mathematics Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad Dr. Tariq Shah currently serving as Professor in department of Mathematics at Quaid-i-Azam University. His topics of research are commutative algebra, algebraic coding theory, cryptography, wireless communication, generalization of algebraic structure, fuzzy and soft structures in development of economics. Associate Dr.Hassan Mahmood Professor and Chairperson Department of Electronics, Quaid-i-Azam University. Dr. Hassan Mahmood received the M.Sc. degree in electronics from Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan, in 1991, the M.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Ulm, Germany, in 2002, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the Stev ens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, NJ, USA, in 2007. From 1994 to 2000, he was a Faculty Member with the Department of Electronics, Quaid-i-Azam University, where he is currently an Associate Professor and HoD at Department of Electronics.
Our address Institute of Space Technology P.O. Box 2750 Islamabad 44000, Pakistan Call us (+92) 51-9075653 Email faran@mail.ist.edu.pk Follow us on twitter:
Incharge CISL Faran Mahmood is currently working as Incharge / Manager (Cyber Lab) at IST and is a graduate of University of Cambridge, UK in Systems Engineering with executive management courses from Judge Business School (UK) and National University of Singapore. He was awarded President’s gold medal by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Tariq Majid and Pakistan Telecom Authority's (PTA) gold medal in ICT4D. He has received numerous awards including UK Trade&Investment (UKTI) runner up award for innovation. Core Member Haroon Ibrahim is Lecturer at Department of Electrical Engineering at Institute of Space and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan. He received his MS degree in Signal and Image Processing from Institute of Space Technology Islamabad, Pakistan.. His area of specialization is Communicationsand Signal Image Processing. Core Member Ahmed Raheeq Sultan is Lecturer at Department of Electrical Engineering at Institute of Space and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan. He received his MS degrees in Information Security from NUST University. His area of specialization is Electronic Design, Network Security, Forensics and Cryptography. ProfessorAvionics Engineering Dept Associate ProfessorApplied Mathematics and Statistics Dept
Center for Vibration Testing and Conditioning Monitoring (CVCM) provides an opportunity of exploration and revelation in the field of vibrations and acoustics together with solutions to local industry and R&D organizations. The Center is equipped with state-of–the-art equipment for real-time analysis. The structural integrity, durability and strength of different components of machines are analyzed under different loading conditions evading unnecessary machine overhauls. Furthermore, condition monitoring techniques augment machine efficiency and operation time evading expensive equipment damage by continuously monitoring the performance of critical components. CVCM aims towards the prevision of sustainable solutions in critical areas meeting the industrial demands and futuristic needs. The Vibration Testing and Condition Monitoring (VTCM) have been recognized as a tool promising safety and efficacy in complex parts over the past few decades leading towards innovation and modernization. We, at CVCM, aim comprehensive failure prevention by providing solutions after classifying failure initiation, mode of failure and root causes of failure through vibration testing. For quality ensurance, all the tests are conducted under ISO standard 10816 and 2372. CVCM offers many services as per the significance of vibration diagnostic and control techniques using principals of vibration, signals processing and data acquisition as follows:
Center for Vibration Testing and Condition Monitoring Department of Mechanical Engineering Institute of Space Technology 1, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad 44000 Tel: +92-51-9075760 Email: ruqia.Ikram@mail.ist.edu.pk
presently working as Professor and Head Mechanical Engineering, has vast involvement in the field of vibrations and condition monitoring for the last 21 years. He has worked on several industrial and engineering projects involving structural dynamics, vibration analysis, fracture mechanics and structural health monitoring. has over 35 years of diversified practical experience of working on various R&D; projects and problems. He has hands-on experience to overcome the vibration problems in rotating machinery parts. has more than 7 years of research, teaching and industrial experience in a number of national as well as international Institutes. He has worked in collaboration with world famous multinational organization GE (General Electric Aviation) and Ansaldo Energia Italy to investigate the vibration mitigation of the turbine blades. His area of research and specialization is nonlinear vibration dynamics and numerical modeling for the finite element analysis. is working as Lecturer in Department of Mechanical Engineering. She worked on vibration related projects. Her research areas include nonlinear vibration, structural design and analysis.
The Center for Vibration Testing and Condition Monitoring (CVCM) is envisioned as leading academic and research facility that will provide technical solutions to wide variety of audience. The CVCM is committed to promote research and provide technical support in the emergent field of vibration and condition monitoring to our scholars, customers and public and private sector organizations for improving the quality of the products.
The Department of Electrical Engineering runs internationally recognized academic program in Electrical Engineering (EE) and Computer Science (CS) with different specializations at undergraduate and graduate levels. The department was established in 2002 and started offering degree in Communication Systems Engineering (CSE). In 2009, keeping in view the expanding focus, the department was renamed as Electrical Engineering Department. The Department consists of experienced faculty, well-equipped classrooms and state-of-the-art lab facilities. The department provides continuous academic improvement through consultation with faculty, industry, electronics & communication engineering professionals and students. The focus of the courses is on the design, analysis, development and testing of communication & electronic systems encompassing latest international research trends. The curriculum of Electrical Engineering is designed to provide all-rounder experience to students in fundamental principles and application of electronics, embedded systems, signal analysis, electromagnetic, antennas, digital communications, digital signal processing, image processing, wireless technologies, fiber-optics and satellite systems. The curriculum provides the students a chance to study a variety of courses over the period of four years. The curriculum of Computer Science is designed to provide in-depth knowledge about the field of computing and related interdisciplinary areas. The students will be able to gain practical knowledge and hands-on experience in the areas like artificial intelligence, image processing, mobile application development, big data analytics, social network analysis, computer architecture and Internet of Things (IoT). The program of computer science will allow the students to involve themselves in the solution development of the real-world problems and open the opportunities for the students as potential candidates for private or public sector organization, freelance developers and entrepreneurs.
Professor/Head of Department PhD (Computer Vision) Paris Descartes University, FranceArea of Specialization: Machine Learning, Hyper-spectral Image Analysis, Document Image Processing Professor PhD University of Surrey, UKArea of Specialization: Satellite Communication / Space Systems Associate Professor PhD (Satellite Communication)Beihang University, ChinaArea of Specialization: Spacecraft Engineering Assistant Professor PhD (Electrical and Electronic Engineering) University of Surrey, UKArea of Specialization: Signal Processing for Wireless Communication Assistant Professor PhD (Electronics & Information Engineering) Hong Kong Polytechnic UniversityArea of Specialization: Visible light communication Assistant Professor PhD (Software Engineering)NUST PakistanArea of Specialization: Digital Image ProcessingHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Embedded Systems) Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, GermanyArea of Specialization: Embedded Systems Assistant Professor PhD (Software Engineering)NUST PakistanArea of Specialization: Digital Image ProcessingHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Computer Engineering)GIK Institute, PakistanArea of Specialization: Evolutionary Computing, Data Analysis and Deep learningHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Electronic & Information Engineering)Beihang University, ChinaArea of Specialization: Satellite Navigation, Signal Processing Assistant Professor PhD (Electrical Engineering)Hanyang University, South KoreaArea of Specialization: Compressed Sensing, Wireless & Mobile Communication Assistant Professor PhD (Management Science)Bahria University, IslamabadMSc (Management Science)CASE, UET Taxila.MSc (Mobile & Distributed Computer Networks)Leeds Metropolitan University, UKArea of Specialization: Networks, Technology & Innovation Management Assistant Professor M. Phil (Microelectronics Engineering) Punjab University, PakistanArea of Specialization: VLSI Design & Fabrication Assistant Professor MS (Engineering Management) CASE, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Electronics / Engineering Management Lecturer MS (Information Security) NUST PakistanArea of Specialization: Electronic Design, Network Security, Forensics and Cryptography Lecturer MS Electrical Engineering Information Technology University of the PunjabArea of Specialization: RF and Microwave, Nanotechnology Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering) NUST, PakistanArea of Specialization: Signal ProcessingAbroad for PhD Lecturer MS (Data Science) NED University of Engineering and TechnologyArea of Specialization: Data science and Data Visualization Lecturer MS Electrical Engineering Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Signals and Image processing Lecturer M.Phil Engg (Systems Engineering) University of CambridgeArea of Specialization: Systems Engineering, Product Design Lecturer MS (Signal and Image Processing) IST, PakistanArea of Specialization: Communications, Signal Image Processing Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering) Abbasyn University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Electrical Power Lecturer MS (Computer System Engineering)GIK Institute, PakistanArea of Specialization: Data Science, Machine Learning and Feature EngineeringAbroad for PhD Lecturer MS Software Engineering COMSATS University, ISLAMABADArea of Specialization: Deep Learning and Machine Learning Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering)IST IslamabadArea of Specialization: Deep Learning, Hyperspectral Image Analysis, Computer VisionAbroad for PhD Lecturer MS (Computer Science) GIK Institute, PakistanArea of Specialization: Evolutionary Computing and Information Security Lecturer MS Computer Engineering, GIKIArea of Specialization: Advanced Machine learning and Computer Vision Lecturer Masters in Computer Science Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute (GIKI)Area of Specialization: AI in Healthcare Lecturer MS (Electrical engineering) IST PakistanArea of Specialization: Wireless Communications Lecturer MS Data Science FAST-NUCES ISLAMABADArea of Specialization: Natural Language processing & Medical Image processing Lecturer MS (Computer Science) NUST, PakistanArea of Specialization: Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering)NUST-SEECS, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Control Systems and Power Electronics Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering) NUST, PakistanArea of Specialization: Electronics and Control Systems Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)Air University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Electronics and Embedded Systems Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)IST, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Electronics & Embedded Systems Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)COMSATS IslamabadArea of Specialization: Embedded Systems Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)International Islamic University IslamabadMS (Electrical Engineering)Muhammad Ali Jinnah University IslamabadArea of Specialization: Control Systems, Signal Processing, Embedded Systems Adjunct Faculty PhD (Embedded Systems)Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), ChinaArea of Specialization: IP/SoC Design & Verification, Approximate Computing, Hardware Security, AI Hardware Accelerators, VLSI for Digital Signal Processing and CommunicationsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Adjunct Faculty PhDUniversity of Essex, UKArea of Specialization: Hardware security and energy/performance optimization in reconfigurable MPSoC architectures Adjunct Faculty PhDUniversity of Edinburgh, UKArea of Specialization: Fault tolerant IC Design Adjunct Faculty PhD (Electronics Engineering)University of Surrey, UKArea of Specialization: Satellite Systems Adjunct Faculty PhDAustralian National University, AustraliaArea of Specialization: Visual-Inertial SLAM, Convex optimization Adjunct Faculty MS CASE, UET TaxilaArea of Specialization: Hardware optimization of complex algorithms, High Level Synthesis Snr. Research Associate - Adjunct Faculty BSc (Electrical)University of Engg & Tech LahoreMSc (Power Electronics)The University of Nottingham United KingdomArea of Specialization: Power Electronics Research Associate - Adjunct Faculty BS (Electrical Power Engineering) COMSATS University Islamabad (Abbottabad Campus)Area of Specialization: Power Engineering
*= Uncredited but required course Elective Courses
Electrical Engineering Department offers MS in Electrical Engineering in following 5 specializations: For degree completion, students are required to complete 24 credit hours of course work, and 6 credit hours of thesis/ research. At the end of 1st semester, students will be required to select one of the following specializations: Mandatory courses and thesis topic will depend on the selected area of specialization. *: Please note that the ordering of the courses in the proposed degree plan might change depending on the faculty availability MS Electrical Engineering with specialization in Wireless Communications MS Electrical Engineering with specialization in Signal & Image Processing MS Electrical Engineering with specialization in RF & Microwave MS Electrical Engineering with specialization in Electronics and Embedded Systems MS Electrical Engineering with specialization in Satellite Systems Engineering *: Please note that the ordering of the courses in the proposed degree plan might change depending on the faculty availability Elective Courses Depending on interest, students can select mandatory courses of other specializations as electives or any other elective being offered. A tentative list of other possible elective courses is below.
The following state-of-the-art laboratories are available for experimentation and research.
Department of Electrical Engineering is one of the most active and productive departments at IST. We pride in having the most vibrant faculty and well groomed multidimensional students driven by self-motivation and quest to continuously improve. We already have a well established degree program in Electrical Engineering and from Fall 2020, the department has also started the degree program in Computer Science which has now become one of the most sought-after and premier career choice world-wide. So why chose IST for degree in Electrical Engineering or Computer Science? It is because our department offers one of the field's strongest instructional and research program driven in part by the industry. We have very strong linkages with both public sector as well private sector industry that results in meaningful projects and research. Our graduates have got jobs in big international companies like CERN, AirBus, Huawei, Eltek etc. and almost all renowned national firms including defense sector. Our graduates have won competitive MS/PhD scholarships in world's top schools including Columbia USA, BYU USA, RWTH Aachen Germany, York Canada, Cambridge UK, NTNU Norway and Monash Australia to name a few. I have always got very positive feedback from employers as well as foreign professors about our graduates and that always makes me and our faculty very happy. Unlike most other disciplines, career opportunities in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science are endless as graduates can work anywhere from startups to big tech firms and government agencies. With the world's focus on miniaturized electronics coupled with computer vision & artificial intelligence, both degree programs offered at department of electrical engineering at IST will prepare you for a bright future. Prof Dr Khurram Khurshid Head of Department
To prepare our students for a career with wide ranging opportunities in research, design, development, production, management and solutions related to all fields of Electrical Engineering (and Computer Science) that encompass the fast growing telecommunication, electronics, computers, wireless & satellite industry.
The department of Electrical Engineering offers PhD in following specializations
The Department of Electrical Engineering has designed following Educational Objectives for Electrical Engineering program through brainstorming with faculty and keeping in view of Departments' mission, Institute's Vision and stakeholders' requirements. The following PEOs have been defined in consultation with the Departmental Faculty Members and Industry Advisory Board (IAB). The graduates of Electrical Engineering program will have following capabilities/ skills / attributes four years after their graduation; PEO 1: Ability to investigate complex engineering problems using modern techniques and propose effective solutions. PEO 2: Manage projects and become effective members of engineering teams through inter-personal skills. PEO3: Demonstrate high moral and ethical values, life-long learning attitude and societal responsibilities.
PLO-01: Engineering Knowledge: An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals and engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. PLO-02: Problem Analysis: An ability to identify, formulate, research literature and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. PLO-03: Design/Development of Solution: An ability to design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-04: Investigation: An ability to investigate complex engineering problems in a methodical way including literature survey, design and conduct of experiments, analysis and interpretation of experimental data and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-05: Modern Tool Usage: An ability to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-06: The Engineer and Society: An ability to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solution to complex engineering problems. PLO-07: Environment and Sustainability: An ability to understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development. PLO-08: Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of engineering practice. PLO-09: Individual and Team Work: An ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and /or multidisciplinary settings. PLO-10: Communication: An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing, on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-11: Project Management: Ability to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-12: Life-Long Learning: An ability to recognize importance of, and pursue lifelong learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments.
IST is now offering Bachelors program in Computer Science from Fall 2020 at IST main campus Islamabad. Computer Science is the most saught-after degree these days and student's premier preference. IST has done the necessary homework to make it a very competitive program. Related research labs like Cybersecurity Lab, Artificial Intelligence & Computer Vision Lab (iVision) have already been established. The curriculum of Computer Science is designed to provide in-depth knowledge about the field of computing and related interdisciplinary areas. The students will be able to gain practical knowledge and hands-on experience in the areas like artificial intelligence, image processing, mobile application development, big data analytics, social network analysis, computer architecture and Internet of Things (IoT). The program of computer science will allow the students to involve themselves in the solution development of the real-world problems and open the opportunities for the students as potential candidates for private or public sector organization, freelance developers and entrepreneurs. Introduction to IT, Hardware, Computer Software, Internet and Web, Introduction to Data Communication and Computer Networks, Development, Introduction to Software Engineering Introduction to programming languages, Introduction to C++, C/C++ Programming Basics, Loops and Decisions, Structures, Pointers, Functions, Arrays and Strings. Number systems, Logical Analysis, Combinational Logic, Sequential Logic, Data Processing, manipulation, data storage, logic families and logic design, FPGAs, Hardware description language like VERILOG Evolution of Object Oriented (OO) programming, OO concepts and principles, problem solving in OO paradigm, OO program design process, classes, methods, objects and encapsulation, constructors and destructors, operator and function overloading, virtual functions, derived classes, inheritance and polymorphism, I/O and file processing, exception handling Introduction to microprocessors and computers, System Buses, Internal Memory, External Memory, Input/Output, Interrupts, DMA/IO Channels, Computer Arithmetic, Addressing Modes, CPU Structure and Functions, Control Unit Operations Introduction to Data structures and types of data structures, Definition of algorithm, running time of algorithm, examples, role of efficient algorithms, Definition of Recursion, Direct and Indirect Recursion, Examples of Recursive Functions, Linear Queue & Its Features, Linear Queue Implementation, Circular Queue, Linked List & Its Features, Linked List Implementation, Doubly Linked List & its Implementation, Stack & Its Implementation, Postfix Notation Concept, Implementation Of Postfix Notation, Binary Trees, Strictly Binary Tree, Complete Binary Tree, Almost Complete Binary Tree, Binary Tree Applications, Traversing Trees, Pre-Order Traversing In-Order Traversing, Post-Order Traversing, Bubble Sort, Quick Sort, Binary Sort, Merge Sort, Insertion Sort, Heap, Heap Construction, Heap Sort, Heap Sort Implementation. Hashing & its Implementation, Linear and Binary Search, What Are Graphs, Representation Of Directed Graphs, Graph Vocabulary, Graph Operations (Add Vertex, Add Edge), C++ Implementation, Hashing, dictionaries and hash tables, hashing function, hashing implementation using array and linked list. Mathematical reasoning, propositional and predicate logic, rules of inference, proof by induction, proof by contraposition, proof by contradiction, proof by implication, set theory, relations, equivalence relations and partitions, partial orderings, recurrence relations, functions, mappings, function composition, inverse functions, recursive functions, Number Theory, sequences, series, counting, inclusion and exclusion principle, pigeonhole principle, permutations and combinations, elements of graph theory, planar graphs, graph coloring, euler graph, Hamiltonian path, rooted trees, traversals. First order differential equations, separation of variables, homogeneous, exact and linear first order ODE, higher order differential equations, Cauchy Euler differential equations, the method of variation of parameters, power series method, Laplace transformation, linearity and first shifting theorem dirac delta and gamma functions, differentiation and integral theorems, inverse Laplace transformation, system of linear differential equations, partial differential equations, method of separation of variables, solution of one dimensional heat and wave equations D'Alembert to solve wave equation Proof techniques, Induction, Summations, basic algorithms on numbers, complexity classes, Searching and Sorting, Asymptotic analysis , Divide-and-conquer: merge-sort, closest pair problems, collaborative filtering, Karatsuba algorithm, deterministic Selection, Greedy algorithms: Huffman codes, Minimum Spanning Tree, Interval Scheduling Dynamic programming: Weighted Independent Set in Paths, Weighted Interval Scheduling, Knapsack Problem, Sequence Alignment, Single Source Shortest Paths (Bellman-Ford Algorithm), BFS, DFS, Topological Sort, Shortest paths, The Class P and NP, Decision, Optimization and Search problems, NP Complete Problems, Reduction, P vs NP Question, Ford Fulkerson Algorithm, Max Flow-Min Cut Algorithm, Edmond Karp Algorithm, Applications, Standard Form, Geometry of LP, Simplex Algorithm, Closest pair in linear-time, Universal and uniform hashing, Randomized Selection, Randomized Quicksort, Minimum Cut algorithm, Easy vs. hard problems, Approximation Algorithm with absolute approximation guarantees, Hardness of Approximation, Relative Approximation Algorithm, Max Cut , Set Cover, Vertex Cover, Parallel machine scheduling, PTAS and FPTAS for Knapsack problem, Approximation algorithms for TSPLP- rounding based Approximation Algorithms Finite State Models: Language definitions preliminaries, Regular expressions/Regular languages, Finite automata (FAs), Transition graphs (TGs), NFAs, Kleene’s theorem, Transducers (automata with output), Pumping lemma and non-regular language Grammars and PDA: CFGs, Derivations, derivation trees and ambiguity, Simplifying CFLs, Normal form grammars and parsing, Decidability, Context sensitive languages, grammars and linear bounded automata (LBA), Chomsky’s hierarchy of grammars Turing Machines Theory: Turing machines, Post machine, Variations on TM, TM encoding, Universal Turing Machine, Defining Computers by TMs. Basic database concepts, Database approach vs file based system, database architecture, three level schema architecture, data independence, relational data model, attributes, schemas, tuples, domains, relation instances, keys of relations, integrity constraints, relational algebra, selection, projection, Cartesian product, types of joins, normalization, functional dependencies, normal forms, entity relationship model, entity sets, attributes, relationship, entity-relationship diagrams, Structured Query Language (SQL), Joins and sub-queries in SQL, Grouping and aggregation in SQL, concurrency control, database backup and recovery, indexes, NoSQL systems. Introduction to interpreter and compiler. Compiler techniques and methodology; Organization of compilers; Lexical and syntax analysis; Parsing techniques. Types of parsers, top-down parsing, bottom-up parsing, Type checking, Semantic analyser, Object code generation and optimization, detection and recovery from errors. Operating systems basics, system calls, process concept and scheduling, inter-process communication, multithreaded programming, multithreading models, threading issues, process scheduling algorithms, thread scheduling, multiple-processor scheduling, synchronization, critical section, synchronization hardware, synchronization problems, deadlocks, detecting and recovering from deadlocks, memory management, swapping, contiguous memory allocation, segmentation & paging, virtual memory management, demand paging, thrashing, memory-mapped files, file systems, file concept, directory and disk structure, directory implementation, free space management, disk structure and scheduling, swap space management, system protection, virtual machines, operating system security Nature of Software, Overview of Software Engineering, Professional software development,Software engineeringpractice, Software process structure, Software process models, Agile software Development, Agile process models, Agile development techniques, Requirements engineering process, Functional and non-functional requirements, Context models, Interaction models, Structural models, behavioral models, model driven engineering, Architectural design, Design and implementation, UML diagrams, Design patterns, Software testing and quality assurance, Software evolution, Project management and project planning, configuration management, Software Process improvement. Introduction (Introduction, basic component of AI, Identifying AI systems, branches of AI, etc.); Reasoning and Knowledge Representation (Introduction to Reasoning and Knowledge Representation, Propositional Logic, First order Logic); Problem Solving by Searching (Informed searching, Uninformed searching, Local searching.); Constraint Satisfaction Problems; Adversarial Search (Min-max algorithm, Alpha beta pruning, Game-playing); Learning (Unsupervised learning, Supervised learning, Reinforcement learning) ;Uncertainty handling (Uncertainty in AI, Fuzzy logic); Recent trends in AI and applications of AI algorithms (trends, Case study of AI systems, Analysis of AI systems). Introduction to Computer Networks, Network Hardware, LAN, MAN, WAN, Inter Networks and the Internet, End Systems, Client and Servers, Connectionless and Connection Oriented Services, The Network Core: Circuit Switching and Packet Switching, Network Access and Physical Media, ISPs and Internet Backbones, Delay and Loss in Packet Switched Networks, Protocol Layering, Design Issues for Layers, Service Models. OSI Reference Model, Principles of Application-Layer Protocols, The Web and HTTP, FTP, DNS, WWW, Electronic Mail, Multimedia, Transport Layer Introduction, Transport Protocols, UDP, TCP/IP, Network Layer Introduction, Routing Algorithms, Congestion and Congestion Control Algorithms, QoS, Tunneling, Inter-network Routing and Addressing, Introduction to MAC and Channel Allocation, MAC Protocols, Bridges, Spanning Tree, Remote Bridges, Repeaters, Hub, Bridges, Switches, Routers, and Gateways, Introduction to Data Link Layer, Framing, Error Control, Flow Control, Error Detection and Correction Introduction, Parallel and Distributed Computing, Parallel and Distrubuted Architectures, Socket programming, Parallel Performance, Shared Memory and Threads, Parallel Algorithms, Parallel Algorithms, OpenMP, Scalable Algorithms, Message Passing, Distributed Systems, MapReduce, Clusters, Distributed Coordination, Security, Distributed File Systems, Security, Distributed Shared Memory, Peer-to-Peer, Cloud Computing Information security foundations, security design principles; security mechanisms, symmetric and asymmetric cryptography, encryption, hash functions, digital signatures, key management, authentication and access control; software security, vulnerabilities and protections, malware, database security; network security, firewalls, intrusion detection; security policies, policy formation and enforcement, risk assessment, cybercrime, law and ethics in information security, privacy and anonymity of data. *Candidates with FSc Pre-Medical / equivalent qualification enrolled in BS Computer Science program will have to clear deficient Mathematics courses of 6 credit hours, within one year
The Department of Electrical Engineering runs internationally recognized academic program in Electrical Engineering (EE) and Computer Science (CS) with different specializations at undergraduate and graduate levels. The department was established in 2002 and started offering degree in Communication Systems Engineering (CSE). In 2009, keeping in view the expanding focus, the department was renamed as Electrical Engineering Department. The Department consists of experienced faculty, well-equipped classrooms and state-of-the-art lab facilities. The department provides continuous academic improvement through consultation with faculty, industry, electronics & communication engineering professionals and students. The focus of the courses is on the design, analysis, development and testing of communication & electronic systems encompassing latest international research trends. The curriculum of Electrical Engineering is designed to provide all-rounder experience to students in fundamental principles and application of electronics, embedded systems, signal analysis, electromagnetic, antennas, digital communications, digital signal processing, image processing, wireless technologies, fiber-optics and satellite systems. The curriculum provides the students a chance to study a variety of courses over the period of four years. The curriculum of Computer Science is designed to provide in-depth knowledge about the field of computing and related interdisciplinary areas. The students will be able to gain practical knowledge and hands-on experience in the areas like artificial intelligence, image processing, mobile application development, big data analytics, social network analysis, computer architecture and Internet of Things (IoT). The program of computer science will allow the students to involve themselves in the solution development of the real-world problems and open the opportunities for the students as potential candidates for private or public sector organization, freelance developers and entrepreneurs. IDEE 1 Thermodynamics IDEE 2 SpaceCraft Mngmnt Elctv 1 Engineering Management Mngmnt Elctv 2 Entrepreneurship Social Science Elective 1 Socialogogy Social Science Elective 1 Phsycology Electcive1 Antenna Elective2 DSP Elective 3 Networks Elective 4 DigiCom/VLSI Elective 5 RF/Power/Opto Electronics Natural Science Elective Numerical Analysis
Electro-Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) is the branch of Electrical Engineering concerned with unintentional generation, propagation and reception of Electro-Magnetic Energy which may cause unwanted effects such as Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI) or even physical damage in Operational Equipment. An exponential growth has been witnessed in the Professional Prowess of Pakistani Engineers in a multitude of spheres during recent couple of decades. Owing to a number of higher education scholarships, we now have numerous engineers with doctorate degrees. Contributions in research work have flourished and engineering development has grown manifold. However, one sphere where skills are lacking is the transformation of conceptual designs and laboratory models into market ready products. This attribute is largely dependent upon practical experience and cannot be attained through academic knowledge alone. One key component in this aspect is the Electro-Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) Compliance. The EMC compliance is a mandatory requirement for all Electronics / Electro-Mechanical products in Military and Commercial spheres, not just to fulfill regulatory obligations but to ensure that the product performs as envisaged in all possible Electro-Magnetic Environment conditions. We offer efficient, broad range EMC Solutions by highly experienced professionals by Identifying potential EMC problems early in the design process and stage-by-stage depiction of products potential EMC-related design flaws. This helps in avoiding inconvenient and costly product redesigns at the final phase of the design plan. Owing to the experience and knowledge base available with Department of Avionics Engineering, a venture has been launched with an endeavor to make EMC related testing and skills available nationwide. In line with the core engineering domain of the department, Aerospace Electromagnetic analysis, test plans and Electro-Magnetic Interference mitigation is a distinctive feature of the facility.
For availability of facility:
Assistant Professor Ph.D. (Statistics) Quaid-i-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Survey Sampling, Spatial StatisticsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Institute of Space Technology (IST), Karachi Campus in collaboration with SUPARCO, is organizing a five day short training course on Introduction to Remote Sensing and GIS from December 10 – 14, 2012. The inaugural session was chaired by Mr. Shafiq Ahmed, Director General Space Applications and Research of SUPARCO. This course is specially designed for students who are new to this field. The objective of this course is to develop an understanding and awareness of Geospatial Techniques using State-of-the-Art GIS and RS software for beginners. This course is being conducted by Masters’ students of RS and GISc department under the supervision of qualified faculty members. The response has been overwhelming by the students from local colleges and universities and hopefully, these participants would become future students in our MS program. Please provide your valuable feedback for this course, click the appropriate link below.
On Tuesday September 4, 2012, the Institute of Space Technology (IST) Islamabad, organized its fourth ‘Open House’. The graduating students of the Aerospace, Communication Systems and Materials Science & Engineering impressed the visitors by displaying their ‘Senior Design Projects’. Entrepreneurs and guests who visited the Open House included a large number of people belonging to the academia, prestigious R&D organizations and representatives of industry. People praised the innovative and useful projects reflecting the research skills displayed by the graduating students. The Entrepreneurs and guests showed great interest and mingled with the students and appreciated their creativity and the grip on their subjects that the students displayed while explaining their projects. A total of forty six projects were displayed on the occasion. The Open House proved to be a platform for the industry-academia linkage and an opportunity for the graduating students to meet their potential employers. Vice Chancellor IST, Mr. Imran Rahman, congratulated the students on their fine show and thanked the guests for visiting the event and encouraging the students.
Aug. 31- Sep. 1, 2012 02 Days Rs. 1000 It is well known that Pakistan science is not doing too well and does not seem to recover if left alone the way it is. In the past Government of Pakistan has made efforts at various stages. Recently the Higher Education Commission (HEC) has made a concentrated effort to promote science at the tertiary level, out of which some positive results have begun to emerge. Regretfully, however, there has been no governmental or non-governmental effort, made for Pakistan in leading the world, at least, in some field, if not all around. We ought to get started to do that right now by establishing first and foremost an infrastructure for Pakistan Science, which may produce scholars in the front echelon of their respective fields to lead the world. An integrated series of colloquia and workshops on some topics, in which some key personnel is ready to lead the effort in Pakistan, is being planned at Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad during Aug 31 – Sep 1, 2012. The topics may include but not limited to:
Pakistan is one of the developing countries of the 21st century with enormous potential for scientific advancement. In the recent past the Government of Pakistan has made effort in this regard. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) has recently made a concentrated effort to promote science at the tertiary level, the positive results of which have already begun to materialize. The Planning Commission of Pakistan is one of the governmental bodies run by the top scientists of Pakistan dedicated to R&D. Pakistani universities are also playing an important role of producing scholars and future leaders in the front echelon of their respective fields. In lieu of this commitment to science, The Institute of Space Technology (IST) Islamabad, is hosting a series of workshops on September 8, 2012. The workshops will provide an opportunity for young students of science to witness first-hand the new vistas of R&D being explored by Pakistani scientists. There will be 5 presentations, each focusing on a key area of research in space technologies and renewable energy sources.
Celebrating World Quality Day and raising the awareness of Quality, it presents the opportunity for our institution;
Pakistan’s location on the globe and climatic conditions make it prone to disasters including, cyclones/storms, droughts, earthquakes, floods, epidemics, glacial lake outbursts, landslides, avalanches and tsunamis. Human induced hazards that threaten the country include transport, industries, oil spills, urban, civil conflicts and internal displacements of communities due to multiple factors. October 08, 2005 earthquake in Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Khyber Pakhtoon Khwa (KPK) province affected 2.5 million people with a death toll of approximately 78000. Similarly massive floods of 2010 affected 20 million people and a loss of billions of dollars. Understanding the interaction of hazards, exposure and vulnerability is important for effective disaster mitigation. Risk assessments are therefore fundamental in disaster risk reduction (DRR) and recovery. Space based data from MODIS, ASTER and SPOT satellites are used for early warning and post-disaster damages assessment. Such satellite aided rapid mapping provides much needed information to Government and Non- Government Organizations for relief and rehabilitation work, especially in a situation when no ground communication links were available. Use of satellite Remote Sensing, GIS and allied techniques for pre and post disaster activities such as satellite based disaster monitoring, multi-hazards risk analysis and satellite based disaster risk management has proven more cost effective and rapid. The main objective of this training course is to develop national capacity in the application of Geo-Spatial Techniques in this area.
On Tuesday September 17, 2013, the Institute of Space Technology (IST) Islamabad, organized its fifth ‘Open House’. The students of the Aerospace Engineering, Communication Systems Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering enthralled the visitors by displaying their ‘Senior Design Projects’. Guests who visited the Open House included a large number of people belonging to the academia, prestigious R&D organizations and representatives of industry. People praised the innovative and useful projects reflecting the research skills displayed by the students. The guests mingled with the students and appreciated their creativity and the grip on their subjects that the students displayed while explaining their projects. The Open House achieved its purpose as the representatives of the industry and R&D organizations interviewed many potential students. A total of 54 projects were displayed on the occasion. IST maintains very close collaboration with the industry. This collaboration has helped develop a culture of research and development. The industry poses its problems to the students who then work to find workable and practicable solutions thus strengthening the norm of research which is vital for any country to join the ranks of the developed countries of the world. The event holds special significance for R&D organizations and people from the industry as they get a chance of to analyze the students’ skills of analyzing a problem and giving a workable solution. The assessment of these skills helps in identifying potential employees from the graduating batch. Vice Chancellor IST, Engineer Imran Rahman, congratulated the students on their fine show and thanked the guests for visiting the event and encouraging the students.

Recent advances in Geographical Information System (GIS) and Remote Sensing (RS) techniques and availability of satellite data at affordable cost have provided an opportunity to acquire the needful information in many application fields at spatial and temporal scales. Satellite data and GIS are being used in various fields of applications including, but not limited to, environmental studies, urban and regional planning, geology, agriculture, energy sector, natural disaster management, natural resources conservation, information technology, health sciences, and retail and marketing. The objective of this workshop is to impart knowledge about RS and GIS techniques to the beginners through lectures and hands on exercises using commonly used software. The workshop participants will be able to apply this knowledge in their specific fields.
Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) are cutting edge physical layer technologies slated to be employed in 4G wireless cellular standards such as 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE/LTE-A), Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) and high speed WLAN standards. Such 4G cellular standards are envisaged to support data rates in excess of 100 Mbps through OFDMA, MIMO, dynamic carrier aggregation and thus enable a diverse plethora of applications in the wireless ecosystem such as broadcast/multicast video, HDTV on demand, high speed internet access, interactive gaming amongst others. At the same time there is a tremendous effort towards fixed mobile convergence to enable seamless mobility across future WLAN and cellular networks. Such factors are driving the wireless telecommunication designers and operators to invest heavily in the development of OFDM compatible technologies and applications with the aim of tapping into the potentially vast revenue opportunity in futuristic 4G cellular networks. This course is intended to provide practicing engineers, telecom teachers and graduate students in wireless with an in depth exposure to MIMO, OFDM in addition to introductory tutorials on the upcoming wireless cellular standards of LTE and WiMAX. The modular approach provides the participants with a comprehensive treatment of several aspects of the latest wireless standards and technologies while emphasizing both the theoretical and practical aspects of such systems. The initial modules will familiarize the participants with an overview of wireless communications and provide a detailed expose of MIMO, OFDM and OFDMA. This will be followed by individual modules on LTE, WiMAX elaborating several aspects of these 4G standards. A MATLAB demonstration module will introduce the participants to the practical implementation aspects of such MIMO, OFDM systems.
The workshop aims to aid faculty members to understand the program & course design process using OBE approach and develop program specs & lessons plans more effectively. The session will include introduction of OBE, learning objectives, outcomes & their assessment. All faculty members are requested to attend.
The advances in the fields of semiconductor devices and large scale transistor integration coupled with the development of high speed broadband wireless technologies such as MIMO-OFDM have led to the birth of Wireless sensor networks (WSN). Envisioned as the bridge between the modern broadband packet data networks and the physical world, WSNs have made possible real-time data aggregati on and analysis on an unprecedented scale. Naturally, they have attracted the attention and garnered wide spread appeal towards applications in diverse areas such as disaster warning systems, crop/ environment monitoring, health care, safety and strategic areas such as defense reconnaissance, surveillance, intruder detection etc. However, WSNs pose unique challenges towards successful design and implementation of pervasive sensing networks. On the one hand ensuring sensor data integrity over the error prone fading wireless channels is a substantial hindrance, especially in the context of energy constrained wireless sensor nodes. On the other hand, aggregation and analysis of massive data sets is logistically complex in such large scale WSNs. Further, topology management and route discovery hold the key to robust WSN deployment for military applications. WSNs necessitate the development of innovative algorithms for power management, sensor communication, ranging, localization, distributed processing and dynamic routing. Beginning with an introduction to the foundations and background of WSNs, this course is expected to cover the research aspects necessary for WSN deployment. Broadly characterized into the PHY, MAC and Network layers of the standard WSN, the program modules are designed to specialize in individual WSN focus areas such as sensor data fusion, topology optimization, distributed estimation and detection, shortest path routing, optimal power management policies amongst others. A WSN demonstration session towards the end provides practical exposure to WSN technology.

The primary focus of this course is to get deep-insight into aerodynamics, performance and stability of high speed vehicles. The course aims to deliver methodologies to mitigate dynamic instability and gust effects at high Mach number, and to compute the aerodynamic performance. Workshop will be conducted from 22nd July to 26th July For more information please download the brochure below.
The purpose of Life Assessment of structural components is to avoid catastrophic failures and to maintain safe and reliable functioning of equipment in the industry. This course is intended to provide a practical understanding of the topic based upon theoretical knowledge of concepts that are involved in the Life assessment methods with the help of various case studies. It would allow the participants to understand the structural design process, and how analysis of structural components integrates into determination of remaining life, fitness-for-service, and other life assessment concerns. Dr. Fahim Hashmi (PhD Materials Science and Engineering) is the Founding Director of Failure Analysis Center at IST, Islamabad. Prof. Dr. Syed Wilayat Husain PhD (Metallurgy), UConn. Specialized Areas: Alloy Development, Materials Characterization.
IST, in collaboration with PAKSTAN and IUCN has conducted a 3 day training program aimed at better understanding of geospatial techniques in Land use Planning and Sustainable Transportation. People from IUCN, Ministry of Transport, Planning Commission, NUST, The Urban Unit, etc attended the workshop.
The purpose of Failure Analysis is to analyze the fracture features and to attempt to relate the topography of the fracture surface to the causes and/or basic mechanisms of failure. Different modes of crack growth produce distinct characteristic features on the surface, which can be used to help identify the mode of failure. This course is intended to provide a practical understanding of the topic based upon theoretical knowledge of concepts that are involved in the failures of engineering materials along with a practical edge to interpret features of fracture surfaces with the help of various industrial failure case studies. Dr. Fahim Hashmi (PhD Materials Science and Engineering) is the Founding Director of Failure Analysis Center at IST, Islamabad. Prof. Dr. Syed Wilayat Husain PhD (Metallurgy), UConn. Specialized Areas: Alloy Development, Materials Characterization. Dr. Sajid Ullah Khan PhD Materials Science and Engineering from University of Twente, NL. Dr. Akbar Niaz Butt PhD Electrochemical Corrosion Testing from The University of Nottingham, UK.
Global Positioning System, or in short GPS, is serving positioning and navigation requirements for over two decades. Currently GPS is the GNSS primarily used by both military and civilian users. Employing hand-held devices, these signals can be used to accurately pinpoint user’s location anywhere on the globe, at zero cost. The GNSS signals, now globally available are used to advance applications which were pioneered using GPS. In Pakistan, use of GPS is growing day by day for applications including fleet tracking and management, machine guidance, Location Based Services (LBS) and most importantly surveying and mapping. Regardless of the GNSS used, various applications could be grouped into following categories: Personal Navigation, Aviation Application, Automotive Application, Marine Application, Space Application, Agriculture, Forestry and Natural Resources Exploration, Geodesy & Precision Surveying, Remote Sensing of Environment etc. This course is aimed at imparting the participants with knowledge about GPS/DGPS/GNSS, its working principles and modern day applications. More importantly, it covers the practical aspects of the technology from user’s point of view. In addition, it provides information about GPS data collection in the field, and suggests data filtering techniques and ways to avoid data corruption. This course also offers guidance and data to users on selecting right equipment for their use. The main course contents include:
The purpose of workshop on fracture and Fractography is to analyze the fracture features and to attempt to relate the topography of the fracture surface to the causes and/or basic mechanisms of failure. This workshop is intended to provide a practical understanding of the topic based upon theoretical knowledge of concepts that are involved in the failures of engineering structures. Moreover, a practical approach towards the ways of description and interpretation of features of fracture surfaces, resulting from different types of stresses, will be addressed with the help of an industrial failure case study. Dr. Fahim Hashmi (PhD Materials Science and Engineering) is the Founding Director of Failure Analysis Center at IST, Islamabad. Prof. Dr. Syed Wilayat Husain PhD (Metallurgy), UConn. Specialized Areas: Alloy Development, Materials Characterization.
The training is targeted for designers, researchers, scientists and manager working in the field of mechanical, automotive, aerospace, civil, sports goods, armor protection and general engineering industries. The workshop will consist of 48 hours of class room teaching spread over 16 weeks every Monday and Wednesday, 1700-1830 hours starting 15 Sep, 2014 as part of graduate course. It will be held in the serene environment of Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan. The participants must have sound knowledge of Mechanics, Mathematics and will get certificate at the end of workshop.
Radio Astronomy is a sub-branch of astronomy in which the nature, origin and properties of celestial objects, astronomical events and phenomena, astrophysical processes and mechanisms are studied at radio wavelengths using various kinds of radio telescopes. The primary difference between other branches of astronomy (e.g. optical/infrared) and radio astronomy is that the equipment, instruments and the observational setup used for radio astronomy is very similar to the one which would be used for radio science and engineering. The elements of the radio observation system broadly include radio antennas, receiver systems, signal acquisition and processing chain, I/O systems and a data storage, processing and analysis system. The entire facility where the radio observation system is installed and deployed is known as a radio observatory or a radio astronomy facility.
The conference program will feature a wide variety of keynote, plenary, invited and contributed lectures, as well as poster sessions. The scope of the conference includes but not limited to the following topics:
Catalyseur is launching a new reality TV Show with the name of “Eagles’ Nest”. First promo of this program has been launched at their facebook page: . This reality show is like any other reality talent show in which people participate to show their expertise. The only thing new about this program is the idea that instead of singing or dancing skills, in this program participant(teams) will be demonstrating their innovative and entrepreneur skills. Judges, investors and the TV audience will decide who is the best innovator through voting. The winners will be given investment for running and starting their business or enhancing their business. On the request of the students Catalyseur experts will be explaining the methodology of the program at Institute of Space Technology on 11th Nov, 2015 for details download the flyer
This course is designed for Maintenance and Design Engineers who want to apply modern vibration analysis techniques and principles for early fault detection and damage prevention in critical costly industrial machines. VA-II builds upon the foundation of the ISO 18436.2 Cat-2 Standard course. The course covers advanced techniques of data acquisition and signal processing, waveform analysis, spectral diagnostics, phase analysis, single-channel impact testing and field balancing. The VA-II course will help the plant maintenance engineers in selecting an optimized vibration monitoring program in their plants.
The Office of Research, Innovation and Commercialization (ORIC) in collaboration with International Labour Organization (ILO) and Higher Education Commission (HEC) is conducting a 5-day training workshop on Start Your Business (SYB) at IST on August 24-28, 2015. SYB is a training program for starting entrepreneurs, who have a feasible business idea for their own small enterprise. The objective of SYB training for the starting entrepreneur is to actually get started after developing a detailed bankable business plan. The plan provides all information required for securing access to the market, finance, human resources and all other business inputs. Interested final year students may get registered with the ORIC to attend.
This course focuses on periodic data collection and analysis for condition based maintenance programs. A sound foundation is established for in-depth understanding of spectrum and waveform relationships. The participants will develop good understanding of the fundamentals of vibrations and understand how to take good measurements in terms of repeatability and reliability. They will gain hands on practical experience regarding analyzing vibration spectra.This course is intended for personnel who are new to vibration monitoring and analysis or who have limited vibration analysis experience.

This intensive workshop/ course about ‘Control Systems Design and Analysis’ describe the time-domain system characteristics based on differential equations. This focuses on the compensator design for continuous-time linear time-invariant systems. In addition to controller synthesis by pole-placement method, it will cover the optimum design using LQR methods, and linear matrix inequality based control design. The course illustrates the use of state-space methods in system analysis and design using real-world application examples drawn from aerospace, electrical, mechanical and mechatronics systems such as spacecraft, aircraft, ground/ marine and dynamic systems.

Date: Tuesday, 16th June, 2015 Time: 09:00 am to 4:00 pm VENUE: Institute of Space Technology (IST), National Center for Remote Sensing & Geo-Informatics (NCRG) SUPARCO Road, Karachi.
To meet the challenges emerging due to globalization and advanced pace of technological development, it is required to equip our national policy makers, leaders, directors and senior managers working in public and private sectors, HEIs, industry and business with the latest tools and techniques of future thinking and policy making. The Institute of Space Technology in Collaboration with the Higher Education Commission is going to organize a workshop on "Futures Thinking and Policy Development". Prof. Sohail Inayatullah, a Pakistani-born Australian academic, futures studies researcher and Professor at the Graduate Institute of Futures Studies at Tamkang University , Taiwan and UNESCO Chair on Future Studies will be the resource person for the workshop. 19-21 Dec, 2016 (09:00 am - 05.00 pm daily) Institute of Space Technology, 1 Islamabad Highway Islamabad (Adjacent to DHA Phase II Islamabad) The authors are responsible for the choice and presentation of views contained in this workshop and opinions expressed therein, which are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the organization as well. The UNESCO / UNITWIN logo cannot be used for commercial purposes.
System reliability has gained significant importance with the ever-increasing cost and complexity of engineering system design. The critical components must demonstrate high degree of reliability under given operating conditions to function. A formal assessment of reliability becomes necessary whenever the risks or costs of failure are high. Reliability cannot generally be forecast accurately, and reliability measurements can at best be made within statistical limits imposed by the experimental data. For engineering industries relying on complex engineering systems, predictive maintenance and remote diagnostic tool are a priority. The reliability risks are controlled by imposition of design rules and reliability centric maintenance. Visit to leading research center may be arranged to have practical understanding of reliability engineering. Participation in this course will lead to reduction of plant breakdown and will lead to productivity enhancement.
The Business Incubation Centre of Institute of Space Technology Islamabad is going to organize a training workshop on “How to become a successful Freelancer” from 15-16 Feb, 2017 (1600 hrs – 1900 hrs daily). Mr. Ghulam Abbas, one of the top ranked freelancer of Pakistan and Managing Director of a software house “Digital Application” will be the resource person of the workshop. Venue of the workshop would be the “1 Islamabad Highway, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad”. For registration, please contact Mr. Sikandar Nawaz (Cell: 0333 996 7045).
Hult Prize is the world’s largest student competition and a movement for the creation of new social enterprises. University students from around the world compete to solve a pressing social issue faced by millions of people via start-up enterprise. This year’s Hult Prize Challenge theme is “Youth Unemployment”. Winner of Hult Prize can win a prize of US$ 1Million Dollar award from Hult Prize Foundation USA by developing the most radical and breakthrough idea to solve one of our world’s toughest social challenges. The Hult Prize is a wonderful example of the creative cooperation needed to build a world with shared opportunity, shared responsibility, and shared prosperity. On campus local Hult Prize Challenges are being held from Sep - Dec 2018 around the world. The winner of the local on campus event will advance to compete in one of the fifteen regional finals to be held in March 2019. One of the winning team from each host city of regional finals will then move onto a summer business accelerator in UK, where participants will receive mentorship, advisory and strategic planning as they create prototypes and set-up to launch their new social business. The final round of competition will be held in Sep 2019 in New York USA, where the winning team to be awarded the US$1 Million prize. The Institute of Space Technology (IST) has organized the local edition of Hult Prize in Islamabad from 30th November to 2 December 2018. Organizing team of IST, headed by Mr. Ahmer Rafi Head IST Business Incubation Centre and Mr. Aashir Malik Campus Director Hult Prize, was instrumental in implementing IST Hult Prize Challenge. For IST Hult Prize Challenge, massive on campus and social media marketing campaign was launched by the IST Hult Prize Organizing team. In total 64 teams of IST students got registered for the competition through a portal. Opening ceremony of the event and preliminary evaluation of ideas was held on Nov 30. Mr. Salman Arain, Managing Director Funadiq was the Chief Guest on the eve of the opening ceremony. Dr. Zaffar M Khan gave the opening remarks and encouraged the participating teams and thanked the Chief Guests, Panelist, Mentors and Judges for sparing their valuable time for the cause of the event. On the eve, a panel discussion was also held on the theme of the challenge “Youth Unemployment”. Panelists for the discussion were – Ms. Samia Khan, Mr. Zeeshan Riaz, Ms. Amna Masood, Mr. Muazzam Bhattii, Ms. Farhat Bashir and Mr. Tahir Nihad Bajwa. Panel discussion was very useful to encourage the students to opt entrepreneurship as a career option and panelists answered many of the questions of the students regarding entrepreneurship as a career options and future employability. After preliminary evaluation, out of 64 teams, 23 teams were selected for next round of mentoring. Mentoring session was held on 1st Dec. During the session, mentors guided the teams to refine their ideas for creation of new social enterprise and their business pitches. Final judging of the local IST Hult Prize Challenge was held on 2nd Dec. Ideas and business pitches were evaluated by a panel of judges comprising – Dr. Khurram Iqbal, Ms. Afreen Siddiqui, Mr. Tahir Nihad Bajwa, Mr. Farrukh Mahmood and Mr. Ahmer Rafi. After rigorous and thorough evaluation, judges announced the Team Boffins (Waste to Energy) as the winner of IST Hult Prize local challenge. Team Boffins will proceed to Dubai to participate in the regional Finals to be held in March, 2019. IST Business Incubation Centre will also help the winning team and runner up teams in their pursuit to launch their own social enterprises. Website: http://www.hultprizeat.com/ii
IST is organizing a 2 days hands-on extensive workshop on blockchain.The blockchain is a very hot domain these days and this workshop will be especially useful for researchers working in Networks, Databases and cybersecurity. Cryptocurrency will also be discussed. Details can be seen on the brochure: When: 6-7 August, 2018 Where: Video conference room / Computer Lab - Main Block, IST Fee: Rs 2500 (students) / Rs 5000 (professionals) - Lunch and refreshments included Payment: - Bank draft in the name of IST - Online payment in IST account HBL F-7, Islamabad Acc No: 1342-00127517-01 Title: IST students receipts
In terms of the value delivery, the successful launch and market adoption of a product starts with the creation of a robust business model. If entrepreneurs test their business concept before they enter into the market, this dilutes the risk of rejection and financial losses. The proposed workshop will be highly beneficial to ORIC / BIC members, engineering faculty, engineering students and professional. The workshop deals with the cutting edge strategies which are related to the key entrepreneurial and innovation issues of today and the future. This workshop would also be beneficial in developing technopreneurship through integration of marketing, business strategy, innovation management and entrepreneurship.

The course aims to equip design engineers with the basic knowledge of design aesthetics as an essential part engineering design. The course will enable the participants to understand the usage of aesthetics and ergonomics in design which contribute to success delivery of the product. The course is ideally suited to engineers and managers involved in R&D, equipment/instrument design, engineers building products and services and startup founders.
Scientist, Engineers and Associate Engineers, Research Students and Operators of SEM 24-25 June 2019, 09:00-16:00 Professionals: PKR 15,000 Students (Limited Seats): PKR 5,000
Researchers, faculty, engineers, scientists, managers, technicians, students and persons working in the field of Quality Assurance/Control, Inspection and Testing of materials and any field related to this workshop. 03-04 April 2019, 08:45 to 16:00 Workshop may accommodate a limited number and registration will be first-come-first basis. Group registration is welcomed. Registration (on CASH) fee includes cost of Workshop material, Lunch, Tea, light refreshment and certificates. Registration Fee: PKR 20,000 per participant
International workshop on the theme of Role of Artificial Intelligence in Environment Monitoring is being jointly organized by IST, NUST & Bahria University with the support of Pakistan Pattern Recognition Society (PPRS). VC IST will be the chief guest of the event. It will be on 24th August 2020, 1pm - 4pm (PK time). Register using your Zoom account at: Registration is Free but slots are limited.
Institute of Space Technology is organizing an exciting one week 'AI Summer Camp’ for your kids where they will be introduced to the amazing feats of Artificial Intelligence & Robotics Vision using interactive learning and fun filled activities. For more details about the AI Summer Camp'21 and registration, please visit: AI Summer Camp’21 was succesfully organized at IST from 5 to 9 July 2021 with a participation of 72 kids in different age groups. Kids were thrilled to learn about AI applications in various aspects of daily life. Kids were also trained on robotics kits and they made their own robots for Robo race and Robo war events.
The workshop on AI & Deep Machine Learning was successfully conducted at iVision Lab of Institute of Space Technology. A total of 24 participants attended the workshop.Institute of Space Technology (IST) is conducting a hands on CPD workshop on Deep Machine Learning & AI which will be delivered over 6 sessions in 2 days on 15-16 February 2021 from 9:00am to 4:00 pm PKT. In this workshop, you’ll learn how deep learning works through hands-on exercises. You’ll train deep learning models from scratch, learning tools and tricks to achieve highly accurate results. You’ll also learn to leverage freely available, state-of-the-art pre-trained models to save time and get your deep learning application up and running quickly.By participating in this workshop, you’ll:
Institute of Space Technology (IST), Pakistan celebrated World Space Week (WSW) from October 4-10, 2021. An online ceremony was held to mark the inauguration of “Women in Space” themed World Space Week 2021, at Institute of Space Technology.Vice Chancellor - Institute of Space Technology - Maj. Gen. (Retd.) Rehan Abdul Baqi - HI (M) officiated the celebrations at IST. Speaking to the participating students and their faculty members, he especially commended the efforts of faculty for cultivating an interest in the young inquisitive minds for space technology and its applications. He highlighted the firm role of women in the advancement of space science and technology in Pakistan.More than 4000 participants from 100+ schools, colleges and universities of Pakistan participated in 191 space themed competitions, webinars and trainings in a weeklong activity being organized by Institute of Space Technology. The celebrations are in line with the United Nations deceleration of World Space Week from October 4-10, to educate people about the bounties of space and to encourage greater use of space technology for sustainable socio-economic development. This year the world is celebrating the accomplishments and contributions of women to the space sector. SUPARCO being the National Space Agency of Pakistan is the National Coordinator for World Space Week celebrations.
Department of Student Affairs at Institute of Space Technology organized 12th Open House on Wednesday, September 7, 2022 in which over 120 HR & Technical representatives from 35+ public and private sector organizations, firms and industries witnessed the displayed senior design projects of the Graduating Class (Class of 2022) and interviews the students on the spot, in the following disciplines;
Institute of Space Technology (IST) is conducting a hands on CPD workshop on Advanced Deep Machine Learning - Hands on using Python which will be delivered over 11 sessions in 3 days on 10-12 January 2022 from 9:30 am to 3:30 pm PKT. In this workshop, you’ll learn how advance deep learning works through hands-on exercises. You’ll train advance deep learning models from scratch, learning tools and tricks to achieve highly accurate results. You’ll also learn to leverage freely available, state-of-the-art pre-trained models to save time and get your deep learning application up and running quickly. By participating in this workshop, you’ll:
Maxnet Technologies is providing you with a complete pack solution to become an Amazon expert and build your high-profile career. Through this Amazon FBA course you will be able to flourish your In-Demand skills and be your OWN BOSS. By completing this AMAZON FBA 2022 course you will be able to choose your own hours for work as Amazon Virtual Assistant and flourish your skills even in a pandemic. Do you want to learn this In-Demand skill? Get registered now: -
Maxnet Technologies in collaboration with Institute of Space Technology is providing you an opportunity to become a skillful Amazon Virtual Assistant by learning Amazon marketplace and using advanced tools to manage accounts. If you are student or jobless and struggling with making money as your passive income you should go with our Amazon Virtual Assistant Course which enables you to provide services as a freelancer and you can build your business internationally as well. The person can be employed full time, part time and can provide services (hourly basis) on different freelancing platforms. Why US? Amazon Virtual Assistant Course Content: Get register yourself in our advanced Amazon Virtual Assistant Course to avail this opportunity. Registration Form Link:
Maxnet labs in collaboration with the Institute of Space Technology is providing you an opportunity to become a skillful Amazon Virtual Assistant.The course will enable you to provide services as a freelancer and you can build your own private label business (PL) internationally as well. The person can be employed full-time, or part-time and can provide services (on an hourly basis) on different freelancing platformsWhy us? Amazon Virtual Assistant Course Content: Get register yourself in our advanced Amazon Virtual Assistant Course to avail this opportunity.Registration Form Link:
Institute of Space Technology (IST) is organizing an exciting 'Artificial Intelligence & Robotics Summer Camp' for kids. It is the 2nd Summer Camp of the series that will be even bigger & better than the first one held last year. During the camp, kids will be introduced to the amazing feats of AI & Robotics using interactive learning and fun filled activities. Kids will also get to design their robots via hands-on training using robotics kits. Kids will be divided into groups based on their age. Different age-group kids will have different hands-on activities designed for them. * 13 - 17 June 2022 (9.30 am - 3.30pm) * For kids of age 7-15 years (approx) * PKR 8,000 (including summer camp kits, stationery items & daily snacks) For more details about the AI Summer Camp'22, please visit: For Registration please visit:
The 9th Blood Donation Camp is planned to be held on 09-June-2022 (Thursday) from 1000 to 1600 hours at IST (Venue: Block-I (Old Library Hall) IST Main Campus). All students and employees are requested to participate in this esteemed cause and help saving lives. Family members or relatives of any student or employee can also volunteer for blood donation. The Blood Bank of IST is maintained at AFIT (Armed Forced Institute of Transfusion) Rawalpindi. Eight Blood Donation Camps have been organized by IST since 2009. By the Grace of Almighty Allah, this has helped all the IST Students, employees of IST, SPARCENT and their family members to save many precious lives. Hemoglobin Test and Blood group tests shall be carried out before donation. Furthermore, every single donation is also screened for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV etc. This will also help the donors in timely diagnosis of illness (if any). Every time you donate blood, someone else can celebrate life.
The 10th Blood Donation Camp is scheduled to be held on 07th & 8th of December, 2022 (Wednesday & Thursday) from 0900 to 1400 hours at IST (Venue: Old Library Hall, Ground floor, Block-I IST). All students and employees are requested to participate in this esteemed cause and help saving lives. Family members or relatives of any student or employee can also volunteer for blood donation (External volunteers be registered by 5th Dec at Medical Section-Room 111 for smooth entry in IST).
IST Character Building Society, in collaboration with Department of Student Affairs, conducted an awareness session on breast cancer on Wednesday, October 26, 2022. The aim of this event was to shed light on the causes, symptoms, self-examination process, and treatment options available for breast cancer, along with importance of healthy diet in preventing cancer. Dr Humera Naz Altaf, Assistant Professor, Shifa College of Medicine, General Surgeon Shifa international Hospital talked about causes, symptoms and available cure for breast cancer followed by a question-answer session. The guest speaker was presented a souvenir on behalf of IST.
IST Business Incubation Center in collaboration with TechnoFem (One of the renowned freelancing services and training providers in Pakistan) is going to organize a Summer Camp on Freelancing from 25 – 29 Jul, 2022 (0930 am to 1 pm). Brochure of the event is attached. Summer Camp will be held in IST and venue of the activity will be shared with the registered participants separately.The Summer Camp will help the participants to get financial freedom and location Independence and the participants will learn how they can work for any company around the globe staying at home. Following is the outline of the Summer camp: Registration: Registration Link: Course Outline: Course Fee: Rs. 10,000 per participant.
IST Islamic Research Society organized a Seminar on “Morality of Society, Reformation and Development, In the light of Teachings of the Holy Prophet ??” for the students, faculty & Officers at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad on October 5, 2022. Mr. Tauha Ibn Jalil Islamic Speaker from Youth Club delivered a talk themed on Islamic Teachings. About 250 students attended the seminar.
Department of Student Affairs organized an "Awareness Session on the Political Map of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan" on October 5, 2022 in IST Auditorium. Ms. Sadia Zaheer Lecturer from Humanities Department conducted the session. About 200 Students attended the session.
The sixth Space Summer School, organized by National Center of GIS and Space Applications (NCGSA) through one of its constituent lab: Space Education Research Lab, and Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, marked its conclusion on 29th July, 2022 with an awards ceremony. Joined by over 115 students from 45 different institutes of Pakistan under two categories: Abecedarian (Grade 5th-8th) and Virtuoso (Grade 9th-12th)– Space Summer School 2022 invigorated the participants with a lifetime learning experience and a unique educational exposure through interactive lectures, Q/A sessions, hands-on activities, workshops, technology demonstrations and webinars delivered by renowned academicians and researchers, including, Dr. Syed Wilayat Hussain (S.I), Dr. Gen. Jamshed Riaz (H.I), Dr. Ihtezaz Qamar (PoP), Dr. Aquib Moin (National Space Science Technology Centre, UAE), Ms. Rabia Munsaf (State University New York, USA), Mr. Danial Amin (Space Technology Education and Popularization, Pakistan). Several academicians and researchers from NCGSA & IST including, Dr. Najam Abbas Naqvi, Dr. Fazeel Mahmood Khan, Dr. Rehan Mahmood, Mr. Daniyal Mir, Mr. Muhammad Umar, Mr. Ibtehaj Hassan, and Mr. Mamoon Alvi, also delivered lectures. The flamboyant galaxy of resource persons delivered more than 20 lectures and specialized workshops during the course of 5 days. The Space Summer School 2022 saw the participation from more than 15 cities across Pakistan. The school featured specialized hands-on workshops on RC Quadcopters, Gliders, Water Rockets, and Astronomical Telescopes. More than 15 space themed competitions in the 2 major categories of Space Creative Writing and Space Arts were also organized to render the literary and artistic interests of the young minds. The school also featured a navigation scavenger hunt, career counselling session, and an astronomy night, where the participants and their families made observations through the largest publicly owned telescope in Pakistan. During the course of 5 days, participants visited key laboratories of IST related to Space Science & Engineering including, Small Satellite Technology & Research Lab, Global Navigation Satellite Systems Research Lab, Space & Astrophysics Research Lab, Propulsion Engineering & Research Lab, Avionics Design Lab, Aerodynamics Lab, Scanning Electron Microscope Lab, Photogrammetry Lab and Space Education Research Lab. Participants also visited the aircraft hangers and Space Memorabilia – a model display of national satellites. A closing ceremony was held on the last day of school at Institute of Space Technology, to honor the participants and particularly the winners of the competitions. Souvenirs were awarded to winners of each competition by Dr. Abdul Waheed (Lab Director SERL) and Dr. Najam Abbas (Chairman NCGSA). Certificates of the participation were also awarded to all the participants of SSS 2022. The week-long space rendezvous embarked with knowledge about Earth, before accelerating towards wonders of deep space, covering the intricacies of Atmosphere, Aviation, Rocketry, Satellite Technology and Astronomy & Astrophysics. The school aimed to enlighten the participants with the applications of space technology, and its spin-offs directly contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The school was inaugurated on 25th July, 2022 at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. With the vision to be a national torchbearer, in the realm of academics, through quality teaching, robust research and outreach – to produce leaders in the field of space science and technology, in line with national aspirations, IST started this specialized space summer school program in 2017. Since its inception, SSS has engaged more than 1000 students from different parts of Pakistan, familiarizing and equipping the young space enthusiasts with latest trends, technologies and research breakthroughs in the space sector and enlightening them with the applications of space science technology in our daily lives.
Debating Society of Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad organized TEDxIST on December 14, 2022 for its faculty and students. Esteemed speakers from various walks of life were invited to share their life experiences. Vice Chancellor IST Major General Rehan Abdul Baqi (HI)M was the chief guest of the event.
Workshop on Principles of Project Management December 27 - 30, 2022 The National Center of GIS and Space Applications (NCGSA) is organizing a Workshop on Principles of Project Management at Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad from December 27 - 30, 2022. The workshop will focus on the concepts of the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK® Guide – 6th Edition). Participants will gain firsthand experience, applying project management techniques that will yield better project charter development, planning process, effective communication, realistic milestones scheduling, focused team building, methods of monitoring, evaluation & control as well as effective closure. The four-day interactive training activity will consist of lectures and hands-on exercises from the subject matter experts. The workshop will especially feature the comparative discussion on existing public sector project management practices and the framework laid down by Project Management Institute in the context of project management knowledge areas. The workshop is designed for professionals (Team Leaders, Project Managers & Project Directors) associated with private or public projects, as well as the academicians and students. Interested organizations / individuals may kindly send their nominations to undersigned and payment as cheque in favor of “IST Professional Development Center” OR can register online through the link: with online fee payment (Details of bank account are mentioned on the registration link). Registration deadline is December 19, 2022.
Department of Humanities and Sciences conducted breast cancer awareness session on Wednesday October 18, 2023. The aim of this event was to shed light on the causes, symptoms, self-examination process, and treatment options available for breast cancer, along with importance of healthy diet in preventing cancer. Ms. Imbisat Fatima Alvi, Assistant professor at Health Services Academy, Ministry of Health, Pakistan talked about causes, symptoms and treatment for breast cancer followed by a question-answer session. Ms. Anisa Sohail, Nutritionist and lecturer at the Center of Advanced Health Studies in Health and Technology, talked about healthy diet and its role in the fight against breast cancer. Dr Ausima Sultan Malik, HoD H&S, presented souvenirs to the guests at the end of the event.
The Business Incubation Center at the Institute of Space Technology in collaboration with IST Entrepreneurial Society, ACM & GDSC proudly hosted DevCon 2.0, a dynamic competition that unfolded over the span of November 24th to November 25th, 2023. The event commenced with an inspiring opening address by Dr. Professor Ibrahim Qazi, Dean of IST, followed by esteemed guest speakers: Mr. Assad Saeed, Principal Technology Solution & Cloud Architect at Oracle Mr. Sajeel Shahzad, Oracle Academy Country Manager at Oracle Ms. Hira Zainab, Vice President of Strategic Affairs at Contour Software A captivating interactive mentoring session led by industry leaders, including Mr. Manzar Soofi, CEO & Founder of Sb-Mc Pvt Ltd, Mr. Zeeshan Qedwaee, Founder of Tech Comrad, and Mr. Ibtisam Babar, Regional Manager Special Initiatives at Zindigi, further enriched the event, leaving a lasting impact on our engaged audience. DevCon 2.0 provided a platform for university students nationwide to showcase their innovative ideas in three distinct competitions: Code-Runner, Space Cup, and Innovate-a-Thon, evaluated by an esteemed industrial jury Syyed Ahmed Masud CEO at Change Mechanics (Pvt) Ltd Dr. Waqas Ahmed Janjua, Assistant Professor at Air University, Syed Taimoor Hassan Director BIC Foundation University Dr Iftekhar Yezdani: Founder RaheQamar, Founder Elements Interactive Malik Shahzada Sohail Awan CEO Inflight Xpress Wehaaj Ahmed Sulehri Manager ORIC Air University We extend our heartfelt gratitude to our esteemed speakers, mentors, judges, and especially our sponsors - ID-ware, Change Mechanics, Zindigi, JS bank and bio Material labs - whose unwavering support contributed significantly to the resounding success of this event.
The esteemed Vice Chancellor of the Institute of Space Technology (IST) inaugurated the EMC Solution Lab, a pioneering addition to the Avionics Engineering Department. This momentous event witnessed the esteemed presence of faculty members from the Avionics department alongside Heads of Departments from various academic domains. The inauguration commenced with the recitation of the Holy Quran, followed by a warm welcome extended by Air Commodore Sardar Ahmed. He provided a comprehensive overview of the lab's objectives and significance. Technical insights were then shared by Air Commodore Irfan Majid, shedding light on the specialized EMC/EMI test facility. Addressing the audience, the Vice Chancellor of IST lauded the Avionics department's relentless dedication in establishing this cutting-edge EMC/EMI test facility, acknowledging its pivotal role in advancing the field. The event marked a significant milestone in the pursuit of excellence and innovation within the Avionics Engineering Department at IST.
Department of Humanities and Sciences conducted a mental health awareness session on Wednesday, October 25, 2023. The aim of this event was to shed light on the pivotal role of good mental health in shaping our personal as well as professional lives. Ms. Annum Tanveer, an expert clinical psychologist and senior lecturer at the Capital University of Science and Technology shared her valuable insights about the importance of sound mental health and how it influences our productivity, decision making and overall job satisfaction. The event mirrors the Institute of Space Technology's commitment to cultivating a nurturing and supportive community. Dr Ausima Sultan Malik, HoD H&S, presented the souvenir to our guest speaker at the end of the event.
Business incubation center at IST is going to organize a guest speaker session on 11 January 2023 on Seminar on Professional Software World. Students and the faculty members can Get the experience about what is Hi-Tech corporate world, latest software technology stack, software development processes in practice, what makes you stand out from the crowd. Mr. Ali Hasnain Rizvi CTO ID-ware will be the guest speaker for the event.
Aircraft are ubiquitous and thus taken for granted. Nevertheless, flight is a complex process involving equilibrium, stability, and control of an intricate machine. In the past, linearized theory of stability and control has served adequately in the design and analysis of aircraft. However, modern aircraft keep expanding the flight envelope and operate in nonlinear regimes which do not lend themselves to facile analyses. Operation in these flight regimes also requires the use of nonlinear feedback control for necessary behavior modification. In this course, we will use computer simulation as a viable alternative for the analysis of complex closed-loop flight vehicle dynamics. Most of the major control methods being employed in flight control systems will be studied, providing students with a comprehensive foundation in the fundamentals underpinning aircraft modeling, simulation, and control design. COURSE DURATION: June 24 - July 05, 2024 This short course will be spread over 10 working days with classes from 09:00 to 16:00 hrs.
For queries, please contact; Engr. Abdul Rahman Assistant Director Office of Internship, Placement & Alumni Affairs Department of Student Affairs Office: +92 51 9075819 Mobile: +92 323 5143228 Email:
The Cyber & Information Security Lab at the Institute of Space Technology is proudly hosting a two-day workshop on “Reverse Engineering Cyber Weapons:” from 25th to 26th March 2024. The participants will gain hands-on experience with integrated labs on dissecting malicious software and shell codes. They will learn how to analyze malware, including computer viruses, trojans, and rootkits, using disassemblers, debuggers, static and dynamic analysis.
Objective:- This course aims to guide engineers in the industry and academia to perform basic Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) testing at manufacturer’s premises. EMC Testing & Analysis (February 13-15) Where Excellence Meets Compliance Introduction:- Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) is the branch of electrical engineering concerned with the unintentional generation, propagation and reception of electromagnetic energy which may cause unwanted effects such as electromagnetic interference (EMI) or even physical damage in operational equipment. In all advanced countries of the world compliance to EMC Tests is a mandatory requirement for all Electronic / Electromechanical products, if these have to be marketed. Full scale EMC testing is a cost exorbitant and time extensive activity. However, some tests can be performed at the manufacturer’s premises to ascertain basic level compliance. This is referred to as pre-compliance testing. This course will primarily focus on teaching Pre-Compliance level testing, troubleshooting of EMI problems & good design practices for EMC Compliance. One complete day will be dedicated to carrying out practical tests in IST EMC Test Facility.
IST in collaboration with Shanghai University (SJTU) China is developing a small cubesat satellite (ICUBE-Q) for lunar orbit. IST's Satellite lab is working on this project. The satellite will be launched via Chinese Chang' E6 Lunar mission later this year. IST is conducting a 4-day long training on Lunar Satellite Mission Design from 4-7 March in IST. Training is technically sponsored by APSCO. Attendees from APSCO member countries (China, Turkey, Iran, Thailand, Peru, Mangolia and Bangladesh) will attend this training.
We are excited to announce an open day on 8th March for students aspiring to a career in science and engineering at one of the best academic and research facility in Pakistan. Register now
Institute of Space Technology (IST), following its vision of establishing state of the art Centers of Excellence which would chart a path across all the academic departments/programs of our institute, established Failure Analysis Center (FAC) in March 2013, which has now been upgraded to a national level facility “National Center for Failure Analysis (NCFA)”. NCFA will not only provide a place for research to all the faculty and PhD/MS scholars, but will also be a resource for providing solutions of materials related services to local industry and various defense and strategic organizations. This initiative is expected to fill a large void, as services being offered at NCFA are currently not available in the country under a single umbrella. It would support a variety of industries by conducting Material Analysis (MA), Failure Analysis (FA), Structural Integrity Assessment (SIA) and providing Material & Process Advisory Services (MPAS). The facility, while still in its infancy, has already commenced to provide consultancy in the following areas: In order to provide above stated services/advisory, NCFA has opted to follow modern trends being practiced worldwide in relevant fields/domains. This approach entails: NCFA plans to enhance the scope of its advisory/services gradually in a phased manner.
Adjunct Faculty MS CASE, UET TaxilaArea of Specialization:Hardware optimization of complex algorithms, High Level Synthesis
Snr. Research Associate BSc (Physics) Govt. Islamia College Civil Lines, Lahore MSc (Physics) University of Punjab LahoreArea of Specialization:-
Lecturer M.Phil Engg (Systems Engineering) University of CambridgeArea of Specialization:Systems Engineering, Product Design
Lab Engineer MS (Engineering Management)Capital University of Science and TechnologyBS (Engineering Sciences (Simulation and Modeling)Ghulam Ishaq Khan University of Science and TechnologyArea of Specialization:Engineering Management
Assistant Professor PhD (Embedded Systems) Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, GermanyArea of Specialization:Embedded Systems92.51.9075752fazal.hameed@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor MS (Aerospace Engineering)Iowa State University, USAMS (Engineering Management)CASE, Islamabad PakistanArea of Specialization:Aerospace Structures, Mechanics of Composite materials, Damage tolerance analysis, Finite Element modelling and analysis
Lecturer MS National University of Science & TechnologyArea of Specialization:Control Systems, Power Electronics, Electric Machines &Drives, Electric Vehicles
Snr. Research Associate B.Sc. (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech Taxila MSc. Advance Manufacturing Tech & Systems Mgt University of Manchester, UKArea of Specialization:Advance Manufacturing, Manufacturing Process Optimization
Lecturer MS Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Wireless Communication Systems and Antenna Arrays92.51.9075732sultan@ist.edu.pk
Lab Engineer MS Mechanical EngineeringNational University of Science and Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Fluid Thermal Systems, Control Systems, Green Energy Harvesting
Lecturer MS (Signal and Image Processing) IST, PakistanArea of Specialization:Communications, Signal Image Processing92.51.9075658haroon.ibrahim@ist.edu.pk
Adjunct Faculty PhD (Embedded Systems)Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), ChinaArea of Specialization: IP/SoC Design & Verification, Approximate Computing, Hardware Security, AI Hardware Accelerators, VLSI for Digital Signal Processing and CommunicationsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorharoon.waris@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Automation and Robotics) Northwestern Polytechnical University, China MS (Control Systems) University of Toulouse (UPS), FranceArea of Specialization:Controls, Automation and Robotics92.51.9075645hayat.khan@ist.edu.pk
Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Materials Engineering
In 2020, the Hult Prize is challenging it’s more than one million member student network across 121 countries to build bold and disruptive social enterprises with net positive environmental unit-economics that will reach a million consumers within a decade. 2020 will mark the 50th anniversary of Earth Day & the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. As a consequence of Earth Day, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and other related initiatives, environmental consciousness globally is arguably greater than it has ever been. However, the natural environment itself continues to be degraded at a massive scale by human economic activity. At the Hult Prize we believe that the Earth doesn’t just need better advocates, it needs more powerful allies. We believe that the time has come for the sort of militancy that arises not from protest, but from positive capitalism. We believe the best hope for reversing environmental degradation is to harness the very forces that are causing it-capitalism.
Established in 2010 in the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the Department of Humanities plays a central role in diversifying the focused STEM based academics of the university. In nurturing core skills for personal development within students, the department serves a vital supportive role. The societies we live in also keep changing, in part, because of science and technology. So, in certain important ways, humans resist the kind of explanations that science gives us, yet the multidisciplinary nature of the humanities provide us an outlet to further address and understand these changes beyond a scientific approach. The humanities have always been more about questions than answers, and students are encouraged to develop critical thinking skills by evaluating the world around them. Capitalizing on this, the Department of Humanities leads the growth for both students and faculty in expanding the representation of the social sciences on a national level. Overall, the humanities faculty is committed towards leading an unprecedented shift towards innovative citizenship and create new inroads for social arts and scholarship. In juxtaposing science with humanities, we hope to create leaders that will reshape and evolve the academic conversation.
Head of Department PhD Foundation University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Applied Linguistics and Literature Assistant Professor PhD Foundation University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Applied Linguistics and Literature Assistant Professor MS (Usuludin) Islamic Studies IIUI, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Aqeedah & Philosophy Assistant Professor M.Phil (Linguistics & Literature) Air University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Linguistics & Literature Lecturer MS Clinical PsychologyBahria University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Clinical Psychology/ Counseling and Guidance Lecturer M.Phil. English Linguistics Fatima Jinnah Women University, RawalpindiArea of Specialization: Critical discourse analysis Lecturer M.Phil. in American Studies Quaid-i-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: English Linguistics and Literature Lecturer M. Phil Pakistan Studies Quaid-e Azam University IslamabadArea of Specialization: Water Resource Management and Freedom Movement in Punjab Lecturer MS English Linguistics Foundation University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Argumentation Theory and Critical Discourse Analysis Lecturer M.Phil. English Literature Fatima Jinnah Women University, RawalpindiArea of Specialization: English Literature Consultant MSc (Applied Psychology) Punjab University, LahoreArea of Specialization: Guidance & Counselling/ Selection and Placement
Department of Humanities and Sciences is a supporting department which provides assistance across the various academic disciplines being offered in IST. In the present era the emergence of interdisciplinary research and the requirement of the industry has highlighted the significance of soft skills in the domain of science. Scientists and researchers need to develop interpersonal skills in order to achieve career growth as realizing their goals is not only determined by the possession of scientific knowledge of their field but also by their ability to develop emotional intelligence, team work, adaptability, work ethics and an overall positive mindset.Our department aims to inculcate ethical values, morals, critical thinking and language proficiency in the students to become effective professionals. The experienced and dynamic faculty of our department is engaged in training the students to acquire knowledge and skills in the area of professional communication, leadership qualities and ethical aspects of citizenship. Students are provided hands-on experience of situations which they are expected to come across and deal with in their workplaces. The acquiring of these skills enhances the employability of the students of IST. Equipped with these professional expertise, our students become nation builders having a futuristic vision.
The Department of Humanities & Sciences promotes a holistic approach to science within the broader context of its human and social implications by providing the conceptual, theoretical and philosophical background needed to sensitize learners to cross-disciplinary perspectives. Our goal is to develop cognitive skills that allow students to engage in critical reflection, impactful communication, and socially responsible action on the professional and personal level in a manner that upholds our ethical, human intellectual and Islamic heritage.
Lecturer Master in Astronomy and Astrophysics, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, PakistanArea of Specialization:Plasma Physicsibtehaj.hassan@mail.ist.edu.pk
In 2022, the China National Space Agency (CNSA), through the Asia Pacific Space Cooperation Organization (APSCO), offered member states a unique opportunity: to send a student-built payload to the Moon onboard the Chang'e 6 mission. Pakistan's Institute of Space Technology (IST) answered the call with a proposal for a Lunar CubeSat named "ICUBE-Qamar" (ICUBE-Q for short). After a rigorous evaluation process, IST's proposal was selected. The design and development of ICUBE-Q are a collaborative effort between IST faculty and students, Pakistan's national space agency SUPARCO, and China's Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU). IST has a proven track record in CubeSat development, having successfully launched its first CubeSat, ICUBE-1, in 2013. The project overall consists of three main parts: the CubeSat itself, the separation mechanism (including the power control box), and the mounting bracket. ICUBE-Q weighs approximately 7 kg and carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. It also features essential systems for attitude control, thermal management, and deep-space communication. The main mission objectives are as follows: Payload: Following successful qualification testing at SUPARCO and SJTU, ICUBE-Q has now been integrated with the Chang'e6 orbiter. ICUBE-Q was successfully launched on 3rd May 2024 and successfully deployed in Lunar orbit on 8th May 2024.
Lecturer M.Phil. English Linguistics Fatima Jinnah Women University, RawalpindiArea of Specialization:Critical discourse analysis
Professor PhD(Chemical Engineering) University of Pittsburgh, USA MS(Chemical Engineering) University of Pittsburgh, USAArea of Specialization:Propulsion Systems, Computational Engineering92.51.9075573ihtzaz.qamar@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD GC University Lahore, PakistanArea of Specialization:Applications of Electromagnetic Waves in Space PlasmasHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorimran.khan@ist.edu.pk
We are pleased to announce the extraordinary achievement that three startups from IST BIC have been granted HEC ISF funding today, which is upto 35000 USD (for each startup). Dr. Farrukh, visionary behind NewVative , Dr Arsalan , the mastermind behind Mount Tech and Dr. Atiq, the driving force behind Bioengineering Research and Development (Private) Limited, all have been recognized and rewarded. Our heartfelt congratulations to these startups. Their success reflects the commitment to excellence and entrepreneurship that defines our organization. We wish them best of luck for their entrepreneurial journey. Following are the statistics of the award: Total applications: 206 (10 from IST) Shortlisted for pitching: 66 (05 from IST) Total awards: 30 (3 From IST)
Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)IST, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Electronics & Embedded Systems
Assistant Professor MS NUST CAEArea of Specialization:Avionics92.51.9075595 irfan.majid@ist.edu.pk
Professor/Head of Department Ph.D. from The University of Manchester, UKArea of Specialization:Signals & Image Processing92.51.9075572israr.hussain@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor M. Phil (Fluid Dynamics) ENSHM, INPG, FranceArea of Specialization:Fluid Dynamics92.51.9075418izhar@ist.edu.pk
Professor (Adjunct Faculty) PhD (Flight Mechanics)Georgia Institute of Technology, USAMS (Flight Mechanics)Georgia Institute of Technology, USAArea of Specialization:Flight Mechanics, Automatic Controljamshed.riaz@ist.edu.pk
Lecturer PhD (Mathematics)Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Nonlinear Dynamics and Control TheoryHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075751javeria.ayub@ist.edu.pk
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) Journal of Space Technology is an HEC recognized journal (X Category) in which high quality research papers are published in the fields of Aerospace, Communication Engineering and Material Sciences. Subject areas include all the current fields of interest related to the above mentioned categories. Examples include: Included papers can cover theoretical research, applied research, experimental results or new insights into previously reported research. To serve the interests of a diverse readership, the introduction should provide a concise summary of the background in an accepted terminology in space technologies, state the unique contributions, and discuss broader impacts of the work outside the immediate subject area. All contributions are reviewed on the basis of scientific merits and breadth of potential interests.
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) Journal of Space Technology is an HEC recognized journal (X Category) in which high quality research papers are published in the fields of Aerospace, Communication Engineering and Material Sciences. Subject areas include all the current fields of interest related to the above mentioned categories. Examples include: Included papers can cover theoretical research, applied research, experimental results or new insights into previously reported research. To serve the interests of a diverse readership, the introduction should provide a concise summary of the background in an accepted terminology in space technologies, state the unique contributions, and discuss broader impacts of the work outside the immediate subject area. All contributions are reviewed on the basis of scientific merits and breadth of potential interests.
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) All contributions must contain original and unpublished work. All papers go through a double-blind peer review process by two referees minimum. The manuscript template is given here for the authors. The instructions in the template must be followed by authors.
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) Editor-in-Chief Dr. Qamar ul Islam (Institute of Space Technology, Pakistan) Editor Dr. Abid Ali Khan (Military Technological College, Oman) Associate Editors Dr. Khurram Khurshid (Institute of Space Technology, Pakistan) Dr. Ibrahim Qazi (Institute of Space Technology, Pakistan) Dr. Asif Israr (Institute of Space Technology, Pakistan) Dr. Tariq Hussain (Keele University, UK) Dr. Salman Ahmad (Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad) Dr. Rehan Mahmood (Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad) Internal Review Board Editor-in-Chief and Associate Editors comprise the Internal Review Board
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) By submitting the article in Journal of Space Technology, the corresponding author certifies that the article is original, has not been formally published in any other peer-reviewed journal, is not under consideration by any other journal and does not infringe any existing copyright. Journal of Space Technology is an open-access journal. It does not have any article processing charges or article submission charges and neither does it charge any fee from readers. Journal of Space Technology publishes open access articles under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) License which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. Copyright on any research article published in the journal is retained by the author(s). Authors by submitting a paper in JST grant IST a license to publish the article and identify itself as the original publisher.
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) Journal of Space Technology receives papers via email only. Authors have to submit their manuscripts both in PDF and in Editable text format (MS word or Latex). Please see the author's instructions section for paper template before submitting the paper. Manuscripts should be send via email to: ;
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) Journal of Space Technology (JST) follows the COPE and the . It is expected of authors, reviewers and editors that they follow the best-practice guidelines on ethical behavior contained therein. A selection of key points is included below, but you should always refer to the documents listed above for full details. Duties of Editors Editors (Editor and Associate editors) evaluate the submitted manuscripts exclusively on the basis of their academic merit (importance, originality, study’s validity, clarity) and its relevance to the journal’s scope. The Editor has full authority over the entire editorial content of the journal and the timing of publication of that content. Editors and editorial staff will not disclose any information about a submitted manuscript to anyone other than the corresponding author, reviewers and other editorial board members as appropriate. Editors will not use unpublished information disclosed in a submitted manuscript for their own research purposes. Information or ideas obtained by editors as a result of handling the manuscript will be kept confidential and not used for their personal advantage. Editors ensure that all submitted manuscripts being considered for publication undergo peer-review by at least two reviewers who are expert in the field. The Editor is responsible for deciding which of the manuscripts submitted to the journal will be published, based on the validation of the work in question, its importance to researchers and readers, the reviewers’ comments, and such other requirements as are currently in force regarding copyright infringement and plagiarism. The Editor may confer with other editors or reviewers in making this decision. Editors will take responsive measures when ethical concerns are raised with regard to a submitted manuscript or published paper. Every reported act of unethical publishing behavior will be looked into, even if it is discovered years after publication. Duties of Reviewers Any invited referee who feels unqualified to review the research reported in a manuscript or knows that its prompt review will be impossible should immediately notify the editors and decline the invitation to review so that alternative reviewers can be contacted. Any manuscripts received for review are confidential documents and must be treated as such. Reviews should be conducted objectively and observations formulated clearly with supporting arguments so that authors can use them for improving the manuscript. Personal criticism of the authors is inappropriate. Reviewers should identify relevant published work that has not been cited by the authors. A reviewer should also notify the editors of any substantial similarity or overlap between the manuscript under consideration and any other manuscript (published or unpublished) of which they have personal knowledge. Any invited referee who has conflicts of interest resulting from competitive, collaborative or other relationships or connections with any of the authors, companies or institutions connected to the manuscript and the work described therein should immediately notify the editors to declare their conflicts of interest and decline the invitation to review so that alternative reviewers can be contacted. Unpublished material disclosed in a submitted manuscript must not be used in a reviewer’s own research. Duties of Authors Authors have to ensure that all contributions are original and contain unpublished work. Material that has been previously published or accepted for publication is not considered for publication. It is also expected that all authors have significantly contributed to the research. Authors should ensure that they have properly acknowledged the work of others, and should also cite publications that have been influential in determining the nature of the reported work. Authors are obliged to participate in the peer review process and cooperate fully by responding promptly to editors’ requests for clarifications, In the case of a first decision of "major revisions", authors should respond to the reviewers’ comments systematically, point by point, and in a timely manner, revising and re-submitting their manuscript to the journal by the deadline given. When authors discover significant errors or inaccuracies in their own published work, it is their obligation to promptly notify the journal’s editors or publisher and cooperate with them to either correct the paper in the form of an erratum or to retract the paper. If the editors or publisher learns from a third party that a published work contains a significant error or inaccuracy, then it is the authors’ obligation to promptly correct or retract the paper or provide evidence to the journal editors of the correctness of the paper. For guidelines on retracting or correcting articles, please click here: . Duties of the Publisher The publisher is committed to the permanent availability and preservation of scholarly research and ensures accessibility by maintaining our own digital archive. For details on Elsevier’s archiving policy, please click here: . Journal has a strict plagiarism screening policy and all papers that have more than 18% similarity index are rejected. For checking the similarity, a paper is passed through turnitin (). References are excluded from the paper while checking the similarity. All papers go through a double-blind peer review process. JST is an open-access journal but there is no publication fee or article processing charges for the authors. Please see the license agreement section for further details.
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online)
ISSN 2077-3099 (Print); ISSN 2411-5029 (Online) Subscription form for JST can be downloaded here (Word / Pdf). Annual subscription fee is $110. Subscription includes post charges for two hard copies of the journal that will be sent to the subscriber
Snr. Research Associate BS (Physics)FUUAST, IslamabadM.Phil. (Physics)Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences IslamabadArea of Specialization:Material Characterization, Electromagnetic Systems
Assistant Professor MS, M. Phil (Corrosion Engg) UMIST Manchester, UKArea of Specialization:Corrosion Engineering 92.51.9075482kashif.naveed@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Algebra) Abdus Salam School of Mathematical Sciences G.C. University, Lahore PakistanArea of Specialization:Singularity Theory, Computer Algebra, Commutative AlgebraHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Lab Associate MS Astronomy & Astrophysics MSc Computational PhysicsArea of Specialization:Quantum plasmas, Astrophysics, Gravitational WavesKhurram.abbas@ist.edu.pk
Professor/Head of Department PhD (Computer Vision) Paris Descartes University, FranceArea of Specialization:Machine Learning, Hyper-spectral Image Analysis, Document Image Processing 92.51.9075412khurram.khurshid@ist.edu.pk
Research Associate MSc Mechanical Engineering (Applied Mechanics and Design)University of Engineering & Technology TaxilaBSc (Mechanical Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology TaxilaArea of Specialization:Applied Dynamics, Vibration and Balancing of Turbomachinery
Assistant Professor PhD (Software Engineering)NUST PakistanArea of Specialization:Digital Image ProcessingHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Lecturer MS Institute of Space Technology Area of Specialization:Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition 92.51.9075731lal.said@ist.edu.pk
The Higher Education Commission (HEC) has made available more than 1,78,000 online books in addition to 23,000 journals and more than one million full text theses to researchers within public and private universities in Pakistan under the Digital Library Programme. If you are at IST Islamabad Campus, you can access the resources provided to IST by following the links appended below. The ASTM Standards & Engineering Digital Library is a vast collection of industry-leading standards and technical engineering information. It covers a broad range of engineering disciplines, including aerospace, biomedical, chemical, civil, environmental, geological, health and safety, industrial, materials science, mechanical, nuclear, petroleum, soil science and solar engineering AAPT publications provide up to date physics knowledge, at a level comprehensible for many readers. Two major peer-reviewed journals, the American Journal of Physics and The Physics Teacher provide a medium for sharing methods and research about teaching physics at introductory and advanced levels. APS provides access to 9 prestigious research publications, which include five-specialist Physical Review Publications, and the PROLA archive. Cambridge University Press publishes nearly 200 peer-reviewed academic journals across a wide spread of subject areas. Cambridge Journals Online is the online content delivery service for Cambridge University Press’s collection of nearly 200 leading journals. Subject Strengths includes: Politics, Linguistics, Social Science, Humanities, Law, Mathematics, Science and Medicine. Ebrary/ProQuest Ebook Central offers a wide variety of content across many subject areas, especially in business and social science. It acquires integrated collections of e-Books and other content. ebrary/ProQuest Ebook Central continues to add quality eBooks and other authoritative titles to their selection from the world's leading academic and professional publishers. Users will be able to download the entire book for 120 days. To access this encrypted file, you will need , available free online. The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) is the largest society in the world for professionals in the field of operations research (O.R.), management science, and analytics. The IEEE/IEE Electronic Library (IEL) provides access to almost a third of the world’s current electrical engineering and computer science literature, featuring high-quality content from the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) and the Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE). IEL provides full-text access to many top-cited journals in the field, including 132 IEEE and 45 IEE journals, magazines, transactions and conference proceedings as well as active IEEE standards over one million documents in all. SIAM fosters the development of applied mathematical and computational methodologies needed in these various application areas. Applied mathematics in partnership with computational science is essential in solving many real-world problems. Through publications, research, and community, the mission of SIAM is to build cooperation between mathematics and the worlds of science and technology. Project MUSE is a leading provider of digital humanities and social science content for the scholarly community. Since 1995 the MUSE journal collections have supported a wide array of research needs at academic, public, special, and school libraries worldwide. MUSE is the trusted source of complete, full-text versions of scholarly journals from many of the world's leading university presses and scholarly societies, with over 120 publishers currently participating. UPCC Book Collections on Project MUSE, launched in January 2012, offer top quality book-length scholarship, fully integrated with MUSE's scholarly journal content. ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global is the world's most comprehensive collection of dissertations and theses from around the world, spanning from 1743 to the present day and offering full text for graduate works added since 1997, along with selected full text for works written prior to 1997. It contains a significant amount of new international dissertations and theses both in citations and in full text. One of the world’s leading information services for science, technical and medical journals, Springer Link contains premier electronic date for 503 full-text Springer Journals and 738 full-text journals formerly published by Kluwer Academic Publishing. Access is available to full text journals on computer science, mathematics, physics and astronomy, life sciences, chemical sciences, medicine, engineering, geo-sciences, environmental sciences, law and economics. Taylor & Francis have grown rapidly over the last two decades to become a leading international academic publisher. One can get multidisciplinary knowledge through this database. The University of Chicago Press introduced fourteen scholarly journals including, American Journal of Sociology, The Elementary School Journal, The Journal of Geology, International Journal of Plant Sciences, Journal of Near Eastern Studies, and Journal of Political Economy. The Journals Division of the Press distributes more than 50 journals and hardcover serials, presenting original research from international scholars in the social sciences, humanities, education, biological and medical sciences, and physical. Wiley-Interscience is an STM (Science, technology, and Medicine) and SSH (Social Sciences and Humanities) publisher. Introduced in 1997, Wiley InterScience is a leading international resource for scientific, technical, medical and scholarly content. In June 2008, Wiley InterScience incorporated the online content formerly hosted on Blackwell Synergy to provide access across 1,234 journals in science, technology, medicine, humanities and social sciences. Since the Blackwell-Synergy merger with Wiley-Interscience, all the journals available to HEC consortium are now available through Wiley-Interscience.
General Collection IST library has a collection of more than 11,900 books on all subjects relevant to the courses taught at the institute. Moreover, books on general knowledge, Islam, history, geography and fiction etc are also available. Reference Collection The reference section has a good collection of reference books including reference text, handbooks, encyclopedia and dictionaries etc. Periodicals IST library is currently subscribing to 33 journals / magazines to meet the requirements of researchers, faculty and students. Online Resources To enrich the library collection with latest online resources available through Internet, publications from professional societies are also accessible. Audio Visual Collection Audio-visual material is considered an essential medium of instruction. Library has a good collection of CDs, DVDs, Audio/Video Cassettes and related audio/video devices. Newspapers Library is currently subscribing to six newspapers to meet the requirements of researchers, faculty members and students.
The Library services / facilities include Circulation Service, Reference Service, Online reservation of books, Recommendation of library material, Current Awareness Service, Inter Library Loan Service, Photocopying / Printing Service, Orientation and Information Sessions, Selective Dissemination of Information, Audio Visual Service and Multimedia Section. Circulation Services Library materials are borrowed and returned at the circulation desk, which is located near the main entrance. Reserved books, audio visual material, periodicals, reference books and CDs / DVDs can be used with in library. Reference Services Library provides reference and referral service to its users. Queries are answered using all possible sources. If the required information source is not available / accessible at IST Library, the users are referred to other libraries where the required information may be available. Online Reservation System Library users can reserve any book using our online reservation system if it is already issued. Reserved books are not reissued. Library user is automatically informed through email when a reserved book is returned and the same is held at circulation desk for two days. If the reserved book is not collected within two days, it is issued to other users or shelved. Recommend an Item We welcome faculty, staff, students and other members to recommend any material, which can add value to our library collection. Purchase of recommended items is subject to approval and availability of funds. However, we try our best to honor all recommendations of our valued library members. Current Awareness Service Library members are regularly informed about the recent acquisitions in the library. A list of "NEW ARRIVALS" is sent to the library users by e-mail on regular basis. Inter Library Loan Service Materials that are not held by IST library might be borrowed temporarily from other libraries on inter library loan basis. To avail this facility, users need to submit their demands to the HoD (Library). Photocopying / Printing Service Photocopying and printing facility is available with the library. Users can get the photocopy of required information from reference materials (like reference books, encyclopedias, dictionaries, journals and magazines etc.) on payment. Orientation and Information Sessions The library's orientation and information program extends the role of library in ensuring that users make the most effective use of library resources. The program is designed to educate the faculty members, students, and staff in locating printed and electronic knowledge resources to fulfill their information needs. This service is provided on individual and group basis. Selective Dissemination of Information (SDI) Keeping in view the area of interest of the library members, selected material is provided to them in order to keep them abreast of the latest knowledge in their field. Audio / Visual Service Library members can utilize audio visual resources available in library. To facilitate the users, necessary equipment has been provided for this purpose. Library staff also extends help to the members in using these resources. Multimedia Section Multimedia section is established in library with 10 latest computers equipped with multimedia and internet facilities. Equipments required for the use of different types of information media (like CDs, DVDs, Audios, Videos etc.) are available in this section so that users can have better access to the information resources in digital format.
Monday to Thursday 0800 hrs – 2100 hrs Friday 0800 hrs – 1300 hrs & 1415 hrs – 2100 hrs Note:
Comming Soon...
Going to IST is about making the most of your life as a student. As you get involved, you'll not only have a lot of fun, you'll also develop your leadership abilities, raise your consciousness, and acquire skills you'll use after graduation. Together students, faculty and staff of IST create a welcoming and enterprising community to achieve all this. List of student societies is always evolving with the changing interests of students. Are you interested in academics, athletics, socializing, social work, performing arts, gaming or movies? There's a good chance that a student society exists for what you want to do.
Pakistan’s capital ISLAMABAD nestles against the backdrop of at the northern end of the Potohar Plateau. It symbolizes the aspirations of a young and dynamic nation that looks forward to a glorious future for its people. Islamabad is a city which welcomes modern ideas but, at the same time recognizes and cherishes traditional values and the past history of its people. Modern, spacious and carefully planned, is a city of wide, tree-lined streets, large houses, elegant public buildings and well organized bazaars. From shopping centers to eateries, you will find it all here. Apart from all the modern amenities, Islamabad is a neighbor to quite a few historical sites. Among them are: , , , , , , and
To the North of Islamabad, Margallah lies between the ancient capital of Gandhara (Taxila), and Islamabad. There is an obelisk right on the top of the Pass, built in 1890 in memory of Brig Gen of the British army, by his colleagues. A small part of the ancient Shahi (Royal) Road built by Chandar Gupta and later developed by the Afghan King Sher Shah Suri in 1540s, can also be seen.
To the further east at about 45 miles away are the green top Murree Hills. Murree is a place for all seasons; in summers it is an ideal place to beat the sizzling heat of the twin cities and a romantic hideout to catch some snowflakes during winters.
The town of Hasan Abdal has a particular association with Mughals and Sikhs. It was mentioned by Emperor Jahangir in his memoirs and frequently visited by successive Mughal Kings, on their way to Kashmir. It has a Sikh Gurdwara (temple) known as Panja Sahib and is visited biannually by Sikh pilgrims from all over the world.
To the east of Islamabad and at the foothills of Murree, lies a scenic & spectacular lake aptly named as Rawal Lake. This lake is host to many of the sporting events like, rowing, sailing and recreations like boating, fishing, sightseeing etc. Rawal Lake’s primary role is to provide a water reservoir for the twin cities. Nevertheless, it is an attractive place for the visitors.
Rawalpindi is a city in the Potohar Plateau near Pakistan’s capital city of Islamabad, in the province of Punjab. It is also known as the twin city of Islamabad. It is the military headquarters of the Pakistan Armed Forces and also served as the nation’s capital while Islamabad was being constructed in the 1960s. The city is home to many industries and factories. With historical buildings and bazaars, vast parks, chilling winter and hot summers, Rawalpindi has proven its status as a MUST visit place.
Saidpur, a little quaint village, famous for its pottery, is part of Islamabad today. It is located off the Hill Road to the east of Daman-e-Koh. Saidpur was founded by Sultan Said Khan, son of Sultan Sarang Khan. He gave his daughter in marriage to Mughal Prince Saleem who later became Emperor Jahangir. Saidpur was a garden resort and a perpetual spring provided water for drinking and for watering gardens an attractive destination, where cultural exhibitions and restaurants provided a great ambiance among the hills during the Mughal period. It has recently been renovated into an attractive tourist destination, where exhibits and restaurants provide a great view among the hills.
Most of the archaeological sites of Taxila (600 BC to 500 AD) are located around Taxila Museum. For over one thousand years, Taxila remained famous as a centre of learning Gandhara art of sculpture, architecture, education and Buddhism in the days of Buddhist glory. There are over 50 archaeological sites scattered in a radius of 30 kms around Taxila. Also, a museum comprising various sections with rich archaeological finds of Taxila has been established close to the site.
Once a major campsite of Mughal rulers, Wah Gardens is located 12 km west of Taxila on the G.T. Road. The gardens were developed with magnificent trees and water channels by successive Mughal emperors.
IST Safety Department is responsible for developing and maintaining a safe and secure environment for the employees and students so that they can pursue their academic, professional and personal ambitions. Committed to serving with professional excellence, we strive to be approachable, reliable and truly service-oriented in the performance of our duties. The department maintains strong, professional relationships with all stake holders to ensure continuous collaboration on emergency planning efforts and familiarity with our campus in the event of an emergency. The following facilities are available at IST for Safety of individuals and premises during emergency. All buildings of IST have dedicated Emergency Exits and are also equipped with fire extinguishers, Water Hydrants. In addition, some areas e.g. data center are equipped with latest firefighting system (FM-200), smoke and heat detectors. IST also has an in-house, highly trained firefighting team that is equipped with latest Fire Tenders and other modern firefighting equipment.
Health care is an important and necessary part of any organization. The true mark of an organization is how it looks after its employees and others. Institute of Space Technology provides medical cover to its employees and students. Medical cover consists of Professional man-power, MI Room, First Aid Facility, Ambulance for 24 hours and First Aid boxes at different locations. The employees of Institute and their families are entitled to free medical treatment from panel hospitals. IST is providing necessary Information, Instructions and training regarding Health, Safety and Environment to all at IST Campus.
Boarding facilities will be limited to students living outside Rawalpindi / Islamabad area. IST is managing 03 x hostels for boys and 1 x hostel for girls. Students are expected to bring decent colour linen and their amenities with them at the time of joining. Boarding facility will only be given depending on availability of rooms. The cafeteria services in IST are provioded by Cafeteria Contractor on cash basis. A spcious and well managed cafeteria is available on campus. However, cafeteria services in outside hostels are provided by Cafeteria Contractor(s) and Owner of Girls Hostel for girls, on fixed monthly basis. A well-organized Tuck Shop is available on campus which caters students’ needs and serves all kind of beverages and snacks etc. Laundry facility is available at IST campus which caters the washing and ironing requirements of all boarding students. Fixed charges of laundry shop are paid by students on semester basis. One attendant in each wing of the hostel would be available for cleaning of rooms and other minor chores. The charges of the attendant will be born by students themselves.
Wellness and Counseling Center, IST is dedicated to help students, faculty and staff members maximize their sense of overall well-being and facilitate them towards making healthy contributions to their academic, personal, social and career development. The Centre provides free and confidential on- campus psychological counseling services, both in individual or group settings, where the students address their concerns with a highly trained mental health clinician in a safe and non-judgmental environment. The Centre further aims to highlight social stigma and spread awareness regarding various topics of mental health through workshops, advocacy and outreach programs. For your convenience, there are many ways to book a counseling appointment for your professional and personal concerns with either a male or a female therapist,
Assistant Professor Ph.D. (Materials Science & Engineering (EPD based Coatings) Institute of Biomaterials, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, GermanyArea of Specialization:Biomaterials, Heat treatment, and Phase Transformations92.51.9075527muhammad.atiq@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Computer Engineering)GIK Institute, PakistanArea of Specialization:Evolutionary Computing, Data Analysis and Deep learningHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Lab Engineer BS Avionics Engineering Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:RF & Microwave, Digital Signal Process, Radar Absorbing Materials
Lecturer MSc Physics, Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, OmanBS Astronomy and Astrophysics, Harvard University, USAArea of Specialization:Gravitational Waves, X-ray Binariesmaham.siddiqi@mail.ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD Beihang University, ChinaArea of Specialization:Solid MechanicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075696msattar@ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor PhD (Applied Mathematics) QAU, Islamabad PakistanArea of Specialization:Fluid Mechanics 92.51.9075585maryiam.javed@ist.edu.pk
The Department of Mechanical Engineering provides a firm foundation in basic sciences, mathematics and design methodology in the area of mechanical structures, fluids, manufacturing and thermal systems. Engines, ships, train, air & space vehicles, steam & gas turbine, machine tools, robots etc are a few systems and devices that need the knowledge of mechanical engineering. The curriculum includes the methodological tools, innovative thought, communication skills, management tools, and provide students the opportunities to work efficiently as individuals and in teams. In the senior year of the program, students are required to apply the theoretical knowledge to real world problems and gain hands-on engineering experiences that require problem designing, team work, communication, time management and economic analysis. The department encourages students to pursue internships that link academic knowledge to lifelong work experiences. The department also offers the opportunity for the students to participate in professional societies such as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics (AIAA) etc. The reason for offering mechanical engineering is to prepare students for a wide range of exciting industrial opportunities including aerospace, manufacturing, automotive, chemical, biomedical, nuclear power, robotics, and textiles. Mechanical Engineers can find employment in the field of research & development, production & manufacturing, design, operation & maintenance, and administration.
PEO-01: Apply mechanical engineering knowledge to identify and address technological and societal problems. PEO-02: Enhance intellectual and analytical abilities to take initiative and/or develop innovative ideas for technological and professional growth in mechanical and allied disciplines. PEO-03: Work effectively and ethically as a team member/leader in a multidisciplinary environment while demonstrating interpersonal and managerial skills.
Mechanical Engineering finds many applications in all fields of technology. Mechanical Engineers could work in government departments, private or public sector industries of various types. Strategic organizations could also hire Mechanical Engineers for their design and development projects in which candidates are trained according to their needs. Mechanical Engineers are required in oil exploration & refining, steel plants, electronics & robotics, space research organizations, technical wings of armed forces and many more. Aeronautical, agricultural, chemical, railways, bio-medical, textile, automobile and power plants require mechanical engineers to design and maintain their machinery. Mechanical Engineers play a significant role in agricultural sector such as maintenance of tractors, oil engines, pump sets, electric motors and other agricultural equipment. In addition, Mechanical Engineers have numerous job placements in marine engineering as cadets, marine engineers or navigating officers. Candidates with higher degree or an additional degree in management could find work in managerial & administration positions in public and private sector industries or government departments or could do research plus teaching in research and teaching organizations or could work as independent consultant.
Professor/Head of Department PhD University of Glasgow, UKArea of Specialization: DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Professor Brunel University Uxbridge Middlesex West London England (U.K)Area of Specialization: DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Associate Professor PhD University of BREST, FranceArea of Specialization: Failure in CompositesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD Politecnico Di Torino ItalyArea of Specialization: Non Linear Vibration Dynamics and Machine Design Assistant Professor PhD Harbin Engineering University, ChinaArea of Specialization: Aerodynamics of turbomachinery, Turbine blade Cooling, Flutter and Computational Fluid DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD Koc University, TurkeyArea of Specialization: Computational Fluid Dynamics and Biomedical Assistant Professor PhD University of Engineering and Technology, TaxilaArea of Specialization: Engineering ManagementHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor Ph.D Pusan National University, Republic of KoreaArea of Specialization: Signal Processing and Controls, Robotics, Brain Imaging Assistant Professor PhD, ENSTA Bretagne FranceArea of Specialization: Mechanics of solids, materials, structures and surfacesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Lecturer MS IST, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Mechanical Design and Analysis Lecturer MS IST, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Mechanical Design and Analysis Lecturer MS University of Houston, USAArea of Specialization: Computational Fluid Dynamics Lecturer MS Mechanical EngineeringInstitute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Mechanical Design and Analysis Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering)University of Engg & Tech PeshawarArea of Specialization: Design and Manufacturing, QA/QC, Metrology Snr. Research Associate BE (Mechanical Engineering)NED University of Engg & Tech, KarachiArea of Specialization: Mechanical Manufacturing & Design Snr. Research Associate B.Sc. (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech Taxila MSc. Advance Manufacturing Tech & Systems Mgt University of Manchester, UKArea of Specialization: Advance Manufacturing, Manufacturing Process Optimization Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech TaxilaArea of Specialization: Quality Management System, Inspection & Testing Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechatronics Engineering)University of Engg & Tech Taxila (Chakwal Campus)Area of Specialization: Advance Manufacturing Lab Engineer BS (Mechanical Engineering) NFC, FaisalabadArea of Specialization: Fluid Thermal System Lab Engineer MS Aerospace EngineeringInstitute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Structural Design Analysis, Computational Mechanics and Aeroelastic Tailoring Lab Engineer B.E Mechanical Engineering, PIEASArea of Specialization: Fluid-Thermal Systems Lab Engineer MS Mechanical EngineeringNational University of Science and Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Fluid Thermal Systems, Control Systems, Green Energy Harvesting Lab Engineer MS (Mechanical Engineering)Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Non-Linear Dynamic and Control Research Associate BS (Mechanical Engineering)NUST, EME College RawalpindiArea of Specialization: Mechanical Design Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech, LahoreArea of Specialization: - Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech Taxila MSc (Manufacturing Engineering) University of Engg & Tech LahoreArea of Specialization: Product Design & Development, Additive Manufacturing Research Associate BS (Aerospace Engineering)Institute of Space Technology IslamabadArea of Specialization: Design & Analysis Research Associate BE (Mechanical Engineering)Balochistan University of Engg Tech KhudzarArea of Specialization: Manufacturing Engineering
Dynamics and Control aims to introduce the concepts of mathematical modelling, simulation, underlying forces and control theory to measure the performance of the multifaceted engineering systems. Further, it provides to examine or improve the dynamic response with the aid of control strategies for stabilizing the complex and unstable systems. Dynamics and Control is primarily focused by combining a variety of interesting fields such as nonlinear dynamics, mechatronics, robotics, dynamics of plates and shells, rotor-dynamics, control of mechanical systems, and acoustics etc. Specific areas of interest include: Students will acquire an exposure to analyze the real dynamic systems, identify or evaluate the system parameters, stability requirements, and the control schemes to regulate them. In nutshell, Dynamics and Control is a multi-disciplinary area in which students will be able to model and solve the dynamical complex systems in a variety of disciplines such as mechanical, aerospace, electrical, avionics, biological and so forth.
Specialization in Automobiles concerned with the support of life cycle design, manufacturing, durability testing and performance of vehicles. The rapid devolopement in the modren and innovative automotive technology, young engineers broaden a complete understanding of the complex field of Automobiles. The future engineers of the automobile can select one field of study out of more in the following areas: This specialization provides hands-on education based on the latest scientific results and techniques, that enables the young engineers to work independently and with confidence. Moreover, graduate students enhance social and scientific skills. The program also enables them to face ever-increasing challenges and standards of international markets.
Fluid and Thermal System (FTS) program aims to impart the understanding of intensely practical, design-oriented engineering problems pertaining to the technical challenges of the country facing nowadays. We aim to grow and evoke the rational skills that will help in solving the multi-disciplinary engineering problems. This program focuses on various advanced courses such as thermal system design, combustion, fluid mechanics, heat transfer, and computational fluid dynamics to prepare the graduate to create innovative new products and solutions to real world problems. This field of specialization is diverse which involves experimental, analytical and numerical investigations in the following areas: This program enables the graduates apply their knowledge and skills to develop the effective, efficient and environmental friendly systems.
Manufacturing being one of the crucial aspect of Mechanical Engineering has a key role in uplifting the nation's production capacity, economy, and national exports. Therefore, this institute has a very high responsibility to train its graduates in the area of design and manufacturing to meet the requirements of the local industry in line with the modern techniques. This program focuses on the area of Computer-Aided Manufacturing, knowledge about modern techniques and advanced processes widely in the industry, rapid manufacturing, tooling, fabrication methods, advanced manufacturing systems using IoT, and smart factory concepts. Key areas for research include the following: This program will prepare the graduates to apply knowledge of manufacturing engineering from the stages of the product design to manufacturing operations for an effective system integration.
Mechanical Design and Analysis (MDA) program focus to develop the core mechanical engineering skills related to the design, analysis and synthesis of the mechanical parts/systems/devices. These skills are considered as the core of any product design & development industry for a range of exciting careers in the field of mechanical engineering. Moreover, this program enables the graduates to contribute in the research and development of solution for advance mechanical engineering problems. Key research areas for this field of specialization are: MDA is a most valuable and pragmatic program that develop a strong technical, analytical, and problem solving skills essential for a range of exciting careers in the challenging field of perfunctory engineering. This program enables the graduate’s engineers to contribute in the development of new and better solutions for mechanical components & systems, production equipment and industrial plants.
The Department of Mechanical Engineering has adopted the Program Learning Outcomes defined by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) and are supported by our defined PEOs. These PLOs relate to the aptitude, awareness and performance that students acquire with the progression of the program. PLO-01: Engineering Knowledge: An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. PLO-02: Problem Analysis: An ability to identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. PLO-03: Design/Development of Solutions: An ability to design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components, or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-04: Investigation: An ability to investigate complex engineering problems in a methodical way including literature survey, design and conduct of experiments, analysis and interpretation of experimental data, and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-05: Modern Tool Usage: An ability to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modeling, to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-06: The Engineer and Society: An ability to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solution to complex engineering problems. PLO-07: Environment and Sustainability: An ability to understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development. PLO-08: Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of engineering practice. PLO-09: Individual and Team Work: An ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and/or multidisciplinary settings. PLO-10: Communication: An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentations, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-11: Project Management: An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-12: Lifelong Learning: An ability to recognize importance of, and pursue lifelong learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments.
Ever since the establishment of this institution, our primary goal for undergraduate students is to train future leaders with high-quality engineering education. The aim of department of Mechanical Engineering is to disseminate knowledge and technologies through quality teaching, research and its applications in mechanical and allied disciplines. In our creative and attractive curriculum, we strive to assimilate the latest developments in mechanics, dynamics, thermo-fluid, energy, and manufacturing. Our dedicated faculty graduated from world renowned universities grows our leading-edge research programs in dynamics, energy, thermo-fluids, design & manufacturing, and control etc. We strive to ensure that all our young students have a strong education with leadership, management and teaming skills, internship experience, and involvement in student activities. We entrust that accentuating these areas will make our young students well-qualified to take leadership roles in the future. Mechanical engineers develop state-of-the-art technologies and exhilarating solutions for the mankind. We attempt to provide our students with a cheerful, productive and satisfying experience at all levels of their program of studies to explore the amazing world of mechanical engineering. With this, we welcome you all to Mechanical Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology. Dr. Asif Israr Head of Department
To serve the community by offering quality education and preparing engineering professionals capable of contributing through sustainable solutions with a focus on research, development, and innovation in mechanical and allied disciplines.
To lead in the field of Mechanical Engineering through quality education, research, and innovation, and is renowned for its creative and entrepreneurial graduates capable of meeting modern technological needs of society
Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)COMSATS IslamabadArea of Specialization:Embedded Systems
Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech Taxila MSc (Manufacturing Engineering) University of Engg & Tech LahoreArea of Specialization:Product Design & Development, Additive Manufacturing
The Department of Materials Science & Engineering is a hub of research and teaching, supported by state of the art laboratories & equipment. The research facilities are regularly being utilized not only by our own students but also by students coming from universities spread over all the four provinces, including Gilgit Baltistan & Azad Kashmir. Courses are designed to impart the fundamental concepts on one hand and their specialized applications in metals and alloys, ceramics, polymers and composites on the other. Diversification in specialties is the strength of our faculty; energy harvesting and storage, micro/nano electronic devices, optoelectronics, bio-inspired nanostructured materials, electroactive materials and multifunctional materials, to name a few. The department is proud to uphold the tradition of strong linkage with the industry as well as with the R&D organizations, where a good percentage of our graduates serve.
A Materials’ Engineer is trained to study Nano- to Macro-structures and to determine a wide range of useful engineering properties of the materials. Fundamentals of Materials’ Science enables the student to establish the structure-property relationship using concepts of alloy designing and strengthening mechanisms. The education of Materials Science & Engineering plays a decisive role in technological development and there is an unavoidable role of a materials’ engineer in almost all industrial and R &D setups - ranging from aerospace, hydrospace, bullet trains to automobiles, metallurgical & manufacturing setups, nuclear as well as power plants, chemical and petrochemical industry, pharmaceutical and food processing industry, and many others. Graduates of Materials Science & Engineering study and resolve real-world problems associated with a spectrum of distress mechanisms operative during the long-term use of materials – may it be corrosion, fatigue or creep. These engineers become the backbone of hi-tech industrialization of the country.
PEO-1: Graduates will be employed as competent engineers in materials engineering related fields, pursue post-graduate education, and some of them will also be entrepreneurs, running their own startups, in the field of Engineering. PEO-2: Graduates will act as ethical and responsible professionals providing solutions with due considerations to economic, environmental and safety impacts of their work on society. PEO-3: Graduates will apply their knowledge to research, analysis and design and be involved in continued professional development as individuals or team members.
Head of Department PhD (Shape Memory Materials)Tokyo Institute of Technology (TITECH) JapanPost-doctoral (High temperature shape memory materials)High Temperature Materials Unit, NIMS, Tsukuba JapanArea of Specialization: Shape memory and super-elastic materials, Biomaterials, High temperature materials, Corrosion, oxidation Professor PhD (Metallurgy) Institute of Materials Science, University of Connecticut, USAArea of Specialization: Metallurgy Professor PhD (Materials) University of Connecticut, USAArea of Specialization: Phase Transformation & Alloy DevelopmentHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Associate Professor PhD (Materials Science & Engineering) PIEAS, Islamabad, PakistanArea of Specialization: Nanostructured Multi-Layer Thin Film Solar Cells Associate Professor PhD (Carbon Composites) Universite des Sciences et Technologies de Lille 1 Lille, FranceArea of Specialization: 3D Woven Carbon Composites & their Structural Health Monitoring Associate Professor PhD (Chemistry) QAU, Islamabad M. Phil (Chemistry) QAU, Islamabad, Pakistan Area of Specialization: Polymer Chemistry Associate Professor PhD (Materials Science & Engineering) University of Twente, The NetherlandsArea of Specialization: Nano-TechnologyHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Materials Engineering) Hanyang University, South KoreaArea of Specialization: Advanced Materials for Energy Applications Assistant Professor Ph.D. (Materials Science & Engineering (EPD based Coatings) Institute of Biomaterials, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, GermanyArea of Specialization: Biomaterials, Heat treatment, and Phase Transformations Assistant Professor PhD (Materials Science & Engineering (Thermal Spray Coatings) Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan China Area of Specialization: Materials Science and EngineeringHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor MS, M. Phil (Corrosion Engg) UMIST Manchester, UKArea of Specialization: Corrosion Engineering Snr. Research Associate BS (Physics)FUUAST, IslamabadM.Phil. (Physics)Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences IslamabadArea of Specialization: Material Characterization, Electromagnetic Systems Snr. Research Associate BSc (Chemical Engineering)NFC Institute of Engg & Tech MultanMS (Processing Engineering)Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences IslamabadArea of Specialization: Process Engineering Snr. Research Associate MS (Materials Science & Engineering)Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadBS (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology, LahoreArea of Specialization: Material Characterization, Failure Analysis Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Materials Engineering Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Materials Engineering Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Materials Engineering Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization: Materials Engineering Research Associate BE (Chemical Engineering)National University of Science & Tech IslamabadMS (Process Engineering)Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences IslamabadArea of Specialization: Polymers & Polymeric Composites Research Associate BSc (Metallurgy and Materials Engg)University of Engg & Tech, LahoreMS (Materials Engineering)GIKI, TopiArea of Specialization: Nanomaterials, Advance Ceramics Research Officer BSc (Physics)University of SargodhaMSc (Physics)Quaid-i-Azam University IslamabadArea of Specialization: Magnetic Material Alloys, Material Characterization
Materials Science & Engineering is a broad, versatile and ever evolving discipline. It deals with the structures, properties and applications of materials namely metals/alloys, ceramics/glasses, polymers/elastomers and composites. They are studied in terms of their structural, mechanical and functional properties and applications. As the need for smaller and lighter materials grows, the desire for new materials, their design, fabrication and characterization becomes imperative. Institute of Space Technology offers Indigenous MS Program in Materials Science & Engineering with areas of specialization in metals, ceramics, polymers, composites, aerospace materials and nano-engineering. The program aims to provide specialized training in modern materials science and engineering concepts to graduates. It would enable students to attain a deep understanding of the theoretical and practical aspects of materials engineering. The students will be pleasantly surprised to discover that the program is attractive because of its rapidly expanding importance in both academic and industrial sectors. Mandatory Courses Aerospace Materials (711121) A brief review of the fundamentals of materials and their types. Physical, mechanical and environmental properties. Review of phase diagrams. Structure of atmosphere, its major regions with their temperature profiles. Characteristics of the space environments. Requirements for aerospace materials. Evaporation effects on materials in space. Lightweight materials and their alloys for aerospace applications. High strength steels, stainless steels, super alloys and composites. Structure-property relations. Materials for pressure vessels and cryogenic applications. Extremely high temperature materials. Ablatives and thermal barrier coatings. Adhesives, lubricants, elastomers and advanced polymeric, ceramic and metal matrix composites for aerospace applications. Metallurgical assessment of space craft parts and materials. Effects of radiations on the performance of materials. Failure analysis and selection of materials. Mechanical Behavior of Materials (711119) Review of types of materials; elastic, linear elastic and visco-elastic materials. Stresses/strains, elastic and plastic deformation. Plastic deformation of a single and polycrystalline materials; slip and twinning. Tensile, compression, torsion, bend, impact and fracture toughness testing. Hall-Petch relation, spectrum of strain rate and its effect on the flow properties of materials. Strain hardening, strain rate sensitivity coefficients, anisotropy and R-value determination. Defects and imperfections in a single and polycrystalline materials; dislocations and their interactions. Plane stress and plane strain conditions; stress intensity factor, failure and fracture modes. Griffith and Orowan theory of fracture. Fatigue, creep and stress rupture. Nobaroo-Herring and Coble creep. Super-plasticity, radiation damage and embrittlement. Thermodynamics of Materials (611123) Thermodynamics review. Laws of thermodynamics; property relation; free energies; Maxwell relations; chemical potential; thermodynamic activity. Statistical thermodynamics. Defects in solids, Surfaces and interfaces. Solidification, metallic glasses, diffusion, atomic mechanisms of diffusion, high-diffusivity paths; diffusion in multiphase binary systems; diffusional transformations in solids, diffusionless transformations. Research Methodology (799909) Research design and planning. Research methods and tools. Data analaysis and interpretation. Research proposal. Literature review and report writing. Important steps in writing a technical paper. Thesis writing. Plagairism. Elective Courses Advanced Characterization Techniques (611124) Modern methods of materials characterization. X-ray techniques, X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Optical Microscopy and Spectroscopy, Ellipsometry, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), Raman spectroscopy, Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM), Particle Beam Analysis, Secondary Ion Mass Spectroscopy (SIMS), Rutherford Backscattering Spectroscopy (RBS) Metals and Alloys (611215) Different methods of classification of steels, various phases and reactions in steel: ferrite reaction, bainite reaction, martensite formation. Alloy steels; effects of alloying elements. Stainless steels: ferritic, martensitic, austenitic, precipitation-hardening. HSLA steels, maraging steels, dual-phase steels, tool steels. Corrosion of stainless steels. Aluminum alloys. Magnesium alloys. Titanium alloys. Nickel-base superalloys. Nickel-iron-base superalloys. Cobalt-base superalloys. Ceramics and Glasses (611406) Bonding in ceramics; structure of ceramics; effect of chemical forces on physical properties; thermodynamics and kinetic considerations; defects in ceramics; diffusion and electrical conductivity; phase equilibria; formation, structure and properties of glasses, sintering and mechanical properties. Fracture, creep and fatigue. Thermal properties; dielectric properties; magnetic and nonlinear dielectric properties, optical properties. Polymer Engineering (611312) Control and design of structure and molecular weight. Determination of molecular weight. Step growth process. Chain polymerization. Copolymerization. Stereoregularity of polymers, Polymerization processes, Morphology and Properties. Polymer testing. Polymer structure and stability. Hydrogels and dendrimers. Composites (611314) Historical background of composites; classification and general properties. Role of the constituent materials in composite manufacturing, i.e. matrices and reinforcements; their types, production and properties. Polymeric matrix composites (PMCs). Metal matrix composites (MMCs). Ceramic matrix composites (CMCs). General manufacturing techniques of PMCs, MMCs and CMCs and their principles. Special purpose composites. Fiber-matrix Interface and interphase, and their role in tailoring the properties of composites. Interface mechanics and toughness. Design and analysis of composites. Elastic, thermal and physical properties. Thermal stresses in composites. Applications of composites. Joining techniques for composites. Machining of composites. Special structures in composite manufacturing; light weight structural cores; honeycomb cores, foams. Hybrid composites. The emerging field of nanocomposites. Composite materials as surface coatings. Testing of composites: constituent material testing, testing of lamina and laminate. Mechanical testing of composites. Full-scale structural testing. Non-destructive testing of composites. Failure analysis of composites. Recycling and disposal of composites. Preform Technology for Composites (711313) Introduction to composites reinforcements, One-dimensional preforms, Two-dimensional preforms, Random fibre preforms, Preforms based on uni-directional layers, Woven reinforcements, braided reinforcements, Knittted reinforcements, Solid three-dimensional preforms, Sandwich preforms, Preform architecture and mechanical behaviour of reinforcements/preforms, General approach to modeling of mechanical properties of reinforced composites, Representative volume element (unit cell) of composites, description of the unit cell geometry as a starting point for prediction of mechanical properties Materials for Solar Energy (611105) The energy problem: causes, scope and scale. Solar Cells. Solar spectrum. Basic semiconductor physics: electron and hole energy bands; p-n junctions; photovoltaic effect, solar cell operation and characteristics; fill factor, efficiency; materials issues in solar cells; emerging solar cell technology; photovoltaic systems; grid tied versus battery backup; assessing energy resources. Electronic and Magnetic Properties of Materials (711141) Semiconductors; binary and tertiary semiconductor materials; single crystal growth techniques; doping profiles; VLSI technology; magnetic moment; classification of magnetic materials; magnetization curves; domain theory; soft and hard magnetic materials; magnetic materials processing; cast and sintered magnets; magnetostriction; metallic and ceramic magnets. Processing of Materials (711132) Introduction to materials processing science with emphasis on heat transfer, chemical diffusion and fluid flow. Synthesis and production of materials with engineered microstructures for desired properties. High temperature, aqueous, and electrochemical processing; thermal and mechanical processing of metals and alloys; casting and solidification; diffusion, microstructural evolution, and phase transformations; modification and processing of surfaces and interfaces; deposition of thin films; solid state shape forming; powder consolidation; joining of materials. Nanotechnology (711139) Introduction. Moore’s Law. Richard Feynman prediction. Size dependent properties at nanoscale. Molecular nanotechnology, Top-down and bottom-up approach; size dependence on properties; materials and processes; silicon technology; semiconductor grade Silicon; silicon single crystal growth and wafer production; photolithography; Soft-lithograhy; clean room; impact of nanotechnology; impact of nanotechnology on information technology, materials and manufacturing, health and medicine, energy, environment, transportation, security and space exploration. Quantum mechanics and nanotechnology. Thin film technology. Bio-Inspired nanotechnology. Impact of nanomaterials. Ethics and dangers of Nanotechnology. Nano-Materials Engineering (711138) Synthesis and characterization of nanoparticles, nanocomposites and other materials with nanoscale features. Nanofabrication techniques. Zero-dimensional nanoparticles. One-dimensional nanostructures e.g. nanotubes, nanorods, nanowires and nanofibers. Two dimensional thin films. Design and properties of devices based on nanotechnology. Importance of nanostructured materials. Structure-property-processing relationship in nanomaterials and uses in electronics, photonics, magnetic applications. Thin Film Technology (711142) Review of vacuum science and technology. Methods of preparation of thin films: electrolytic deposition; cathodic and anodic films, physical vapor deposition. The physics and chemistry of thermal evaporation. Film thicknesses; uniformity and purity, Evaporation hardware and techniques, Glow discharges and Plasmas; sputtering, sputtering processes; laser ablation hybrid and modified PVD processes; chemical vapor deposition: reaction types, thermodynamics of CVD, gas transport, growth kinetics, CVD processes and system. Growth and structure of films; atomistic nucleation processes; post-nulceation growth; film structures; structural aspects of epitaxial films; lattice misfit and imperfection in epitaxial films; Epitaxial Film growth and characterization; amorphous thin films. Spectroscopic Methods (711144) Atomic absorption spectroscopy, UV-VIS spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, Infrared and Raman spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, photoelectron and Auger electron spectroscopy, XPS. Extraction of Materials (611146) Thermochemistry, chemical Equilibrium, melts and solutions, reaction kinetics, reactor design, phase Separation, fuel and ore preparation, reduction of metal oxides, smelting, refining processes, rare and reactive Metals, ferroalloys, hydrometallurgy, electrometallurgy, enthalpies of formation at 25C, enthalpy increments above 25C, standard Gibbs energies of formation and evaporation. Electrochemistry and Corrosion (611214) Electrochemical Concept of Corrosion, Faradaic and Non-Faradaic Processes, Electrical Double Layer, Corrosion Cells, Corrosion Processes, Corrosion circuit, Cathodic and Anodic Reactions, Formation of Solid Products and their importance. Electrochemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics including charge transfer, polarization and mixed electrodes, Interface Potential Difference and Half-Cell, Nernst-Equation, Pourbaix Diagrams. Types of corrosion and their mechanisms, Galvanic Coupling, Corrosion of Active-Passive Metals and Alloys, Anodic Polarization and Passivity, Influence of Environmental Variables. Corrosion Rate Measurements, Tafel Analysis, Polarization Resistance, Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy, Cyclic Polarization Scans. Corrosion of welded structures and Micro-Biological Corrosion with case studies. Semiconductors (711147) Energy band and carrier concentration in thermal equilibrium, carrier transport phenomenon, semiconductor devices: PH junction, Bipolar transistor and related devices, MOSFET and related devices, MESFET and related devices, Microwave diodes, quantum-effect and hot-electron devices, photonic devices Solid State Physics (717405) Crystal vibrations, thermal properties, free electron Fermi gas, energy bands, Fermi surface and metals, superconductivity, diamagnetic and paramagnetism, ferromagnetism and antiferromagnetism, Magnetic resonances, Plasmon’s, Polaritons and Polarons, Optical Processes and Excitons, Dielectrics and Ferroelectrics, Surface and Interface Physics, Non crystalline solids, point defects, Dislocations, alloys Advanced Engineering Mathematics (623205) Vector Calculus, Coordinate system transformation, Power series solution, Special functions, Bessel functions, Legendre polynomials, Laplace and inverse transforms, Solution of linear differential equations by the Laplace transform method, Introduction to PDE’s, Functions of many variables and their geometries Finite Element Methods (714808) Introduction to Finite Element Methods (FEM), mathematics preliminaries, truss analysis, variational and weighted residual formulations, general approach to structural analysis, efficient representation of computational meshes, efficient computation of the element tensor (element stiffness matrix), tensor representation of multilinear forms, Stress analysis for one and two dimensional problems of structures, beam analysis, and ANSYS software for FEA analysis
The MS in manufacturing engineering provides deep understanding of manufacturing process like machining, casting, molding, shaping, forging etc. The manufacturing industry is fast expanding in the country and there is acute shortage of manufacturing engineers in the country. The potential career opportunities are in Aero, Automotive, Textile, Agriculture and machinery manufacturing etc.
Materials Science and Engineering (MS&E) has played a pivotal role in the technological evolution of our society, from structural steels to optoelectronics and information processing. The field of MS&E is currently evolving at a more rapid pace than at any point in history. The evolution of the field, and its societal impact, continuously occurs through collaborations between materials scientists/ engineers and a researcher from fields such as biology, medicine, physics, chemistry and other areas of engineering and manufacturing. Most fields in science and engineering are concerned in some way with materials, but only the field of materials science and engineering focuses directly on them. Further, the major problems in making nanotechnology based devices are material related. So a wide variety of opportunities await the materials science and engineering graduate in research, development, design, production, and management in almost every industry.
The welding and joining technology plays very important role in manufacturing industry. The understanding of the joining process and its effects on base material is very important to produce high quality and durable products. Welding engineering experts have a wide scope in a number of industries like aero, automotive, agriculture and other machinery etc. There is an acute shortage of welding technologist in the country and there is huge demand in public and private sector industries.
The department is in the process of expansion and preparing to shift to a much spacious premises with new, appropriately equipped laboratories and capacious lecture halls. The capacity enhancement is timely tuned with CPEC - the pacesetter of engineering activities in our part of the World. Projected increase in air travel in the coming years in Middle Eastern as well as Far Eastern routes is expected to boost the job opportunities of Materials’ Engineers who are well-versed in advanced aerospace materials. We, at the Department of Materials’ Science & Engineering continue to tailor our courses and course contents according to the expectations of the market and the evolution of technology. Dr. Abdul Wadood Head Materials Science and Engineering
The Department of Materials Science & Engineering aims to prepare technically strong engineers who can contribute to the society and to the science and technology of materials through innovation, research, leadership and entrepreneurship.
The PhD program is designed to give students a broad and deep understanding of materials. The specialized research oriented coursework and quality thesis will allow students to build their career in aerospace materials, nanotechnology, smart materials and coatings & tribology. The key objective of the PhD degree program in Materials Science & Engineering (MSE) is to impart rigorous training for undertaking challenges in innovative research which is publishable in globally benchmarked high quality journals and conferences. The graduate students are expected to study and collaborate with faculty members in an open dialogue oriented explorative atmosphere (mostly informal but intellectually rewarding) compared with a structured and defined curriculum of undergraduate study. Generally, faculty members conduct research in different specialities of MSE that allow student to choose a research topic from a spectrum of research fields and then excel in them under the individual supervision and guidance of a faculty member. The program is designed for full-time students who under ideal circumstances will complete the different phases of coursework, qualifying examinations, and doctoral dissertation, and publish their work in an ISI indexed journal in 4-5 years of uninterrupted study. The curriculum is designed to provide interdisciplinary training that combines advanced fabrication methods with the latest techniques in materials processing and engineering. The choice of courses is tailored to the student's professional objectives and must meet the minimum requirements of the IST. The courses are selected and approved in consultation with the DBGS at the time of giving admission. Departures from the stated requirements are considered only in exceptional cases and must be approved by Graduate Studies and Research Council (GSRC). Research areas are numerous and include aerospace materials, nanotechnology, smart materials and coating & tribology. To fulfil the minimum requirement of 18 credit hours of course work, students have to take a mandatory course in aerospace materials and five other courses from the list of PhD courses approved by DBGS for each student. A course that is part of MS degree curriculum will not be made part of PhD coursework. Moreover, a student must pass a non-credit course of “Research Methodologies” if not already studied during the MS coursework. $committee comprises of one internal (field experts in the department) and two external examiner (field expert in any other HEC recognised Institute). PhD will be offered in the following specialisations: Note: The elective course will be offered from the list subject to the availability of specialized field of faculty and the number of students interested in the course Advanced Aerospace Materials (MSE 811) Intensifying demands of properties of aerospace materials, Mission demands, New challenges, Increasing efficiencies and powers of engines, Metallic materials – classical alloys, smart materials, refractory metals, new trends, Ceramic materials – recent developments, New trends in polymeric materials, Development of various fiber materials for composites, New trends in composite materials, Advances in coatings for aerospace materials Mathematics for Materials Science (HUM 821) Algebra, Complex numbers, Complex e-function, Other complex functions, Vectors in N-dimensional space, Matrices, Square matrices and determinants, Systems of Linear Equations, Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, Scalar and vector product, Hermite and unitary matrices with complex Components, Functions of one Variable, Derivatives and Integrals, Calculation rules of derivatives and integrals, Sequences and Series, Taylor series and their application, Linear Optimization, Fitting to an orthonormal set of functions, Functions as vectors, Schmidt's orthonormalization procedure, Fourier series, Fourier-Transforms, Solution of DEQs by Fourier Transformation, Fourier Series vs. Fourier Transformation, Error function, Gamma function, Delta function, Functions of multiple variables, Partial derivatives / Derivatives in certain directions, Total Derivatives, Minimization problems, Simple N-dimensional integrals. Nanochemistry for Nanoengineering (MSE 845) Emergence of the fields, State of the Art and Challenges, Surface Science and Surface energy, Nanochemistry, Dimensionality and Materials, Nanosynthesis, Homogenous and Heterogeneous Nucleation, Sol-Gel-Synthesis, Forced hydrolysis, Solid state phase segregation, Kinetically confined synthesis, Seeding, Micelles and micro emulsion, Aerosol, Spray Pyrolysis, Microwave, Template-based synthesis, Carbon Fullerenes and Nanotubes, Micro and Mesoporous, Core-shell structures, Organic/Inorganic hybrids, Nanocomposite, Intercalation, Green Nanosynthesis, Nanopatterning, Self-assembly and self-organization, Capillary forces, Dispersion Interaction, Shear force assisted assembly, Electric field assisted assembly, Covalently linked assembly, Template assisted assembly, Green Nanopatterning, Nanoengineering Phase Transformation and Kinetics (MSE 823) Introduction, definitions, classification of phase transformations, Homogeneous nucleation theory, Transient nucleation, Heterogeneous nucleation theory, Nucleation in alloys, Spinodal decomposition, Interface controlled thermally activated growth, Diffusion controlled growth, Formal theory of transformation kinetics, Polymorphic, massive, and precipitation transformations, Kinetics of coarsening, Order-disorder transformations, Diffusionless transformations, Characteristics of martensitic transformations, Crystallography of martensitic transformations, Kinetics of martensitic transformations, Shape memory alloys, Bainitic transformations, Amorphous materials; metallic glasses, Block co-polymers, semicrystalline polymers, Quasicrystalline materials, Nanocrystalline materials Advanced Surface Engineering and Coating (MSE 861) Philosophy of surface engineering, General Applications and Requirements, Principles and design of coatings, Physics of the plasma state and plasma surface interactions, Surface engineering as part of a manufacturing process, Integrating coating systems into the design process, Coating manufacturing processes, Electro deposition, Flame spraying, Plasma spray, Physical vapour deposition, Chemical vapour deposition, HIP surface treatments, Sol-gel coatings, Spin coating methods Smart Materials (MSE 867) Classification, Application Areas, Piezoelectric Materials, Piezoeffect, Piezoelectric Materials, Ferroelectricity, Fabrication, Applications, Magnetostrictive Materials, Magnetostriction, Cryogenic Materials, Rare Earth - Fe phases, Thin Film Materials, Applications, Shape Memory Alloys, Shape Memory Effects, Superelasticity, TiNi - based materials, Shape Memory Thin Films, Applications, Multiferroic Materials, Magnetic Shape Memory Materials, Magnetoelectric Composites Advanced microscopy techniques (MSE 831) Introduction to TEM and SEM, Hardware, Imaging, Diffraction, Spectroscopy, Electron crystallography, Theory of domain crystals, Advanced analytical techniques, Characterization of magnetic structure, EM in Materials Science, In situ observations, TEM on nanomaterials, Real structure and diffuse scattering, Crystal defects, Combined approach for structure analysis Micro/Nano Systems Technology and Processes (MSE 856) Introduction to micro- and nanosystems technology, Cleanroom technology, Optical and electron beam lithography, Thin film deposition: PECVD, sputtering, evaporation, pulse laser deposition, Wet and dry etching, Optical and scanning electron microscope inspection, MEMS materials, MEMS technologies, Doping of silicon, Micromechanical sensors, Piezoelectric transducers, Thermal sensors and actuators, MOEMS, MEMS packaging Tribology and Lubrication (MSE 872) Surface Topography, Physico-Chemical Aspects of Solid Surfaces, Surface Interactions, Mechanics of solid contacts, Elastic Contacts, Elastoplastic Contacts, Fracture, Friction, Laws of Friction, Mechanisms of Friction, Friction Space, Stiction, Stick Slip, Surface Temperature, Wear, Adhesive Wear, Delamination Wear, Fretting Wear, Abrasive Wear, Erosive Wear, Corrosive Wear, Mild and Severe Oxidational Wear, Melt Wear, Wear-Mechanism Maps, Lubrication, Boundary Lubrication, Solid-Film Lubrication, Mixed Lubrication, Hydrodynamic Lubrication, Hydrostatic Lubrication, Nanoscale tribology, Interatomic Interactions, Atomic Force Microscope (AFM), Challenges of Tribological Testing at Small Scales, Tribological testing, Common Geometries, Instrumentation and Methods Used for Testing, Influences of Test Parameters, Applications/Case Studies, Sliding Contacts, Rolling Contacts, Bearing Design, Coating Selection. Optional topics include: Electric Contacts, Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS), Design of Tribological Surfaces, and Troubleshooting. Semiconductor Materials and Processing (MSE 813) Band theory, Essentials of the Free Electron Gas, Energy Gaps and General Band Structure, Band Structures and Standard Representations, Semiconductor physics, intrinsic properties in equilibrium; Doping, carrier, concentration, mobility, and conductivity, Junctions and devices, Fundamentals of optoelectronics, Materials and radiant recombination, Recombination and luminescence, Doping of compound semiconductors, Wavelength engineering; Light and semiconductors, Total efficiency of light generation, Absorption and emission of light, modulation doping, and quantum effects, Real heterojunctions, Quantum devices, Single and multiple quantum wells, Principles of the semiconductor LASER, LASER conditions; Interaction of light and electrons and inversion; Light amplification in semiconductors, from amplification to oscillation, Second Laser condition, Laser modes, Light emitting devices, Basic requirements and design principles; Products, market, materials, and technologies; Selected LED concepts, Optimizing light confinement and gain in Laser diodes, Special Semiconductor, Siliconcarbide, Materials aspects and applications. Solid State Chemistry and Crystallography (723) Structure of complex materials, Crystallography, Structure determination of bulk Materials, Intermetallic phases, biomaterials, porous materials, silicates, metal organic frameworks, Real structure of solids, Disorder of bulk materials, Theory of real structures with crystallographic group theory, Experimental characterization of disordered materials, Preparative methods for bulk materials, Solid state reactions, Formation of solids from the gas phase, Formation of solids from melts, Preparation of inorganic polymers, Porous and nanostructured materials Magnetic Materials: Physics and Applications (MSE 824) Fundamentals of magnetism, Manifestations of magnetism, Magnetic anisotropies, Magnetization processes, Magnetic domains, Soft magnetic materials, Hard magnetic materials, Spin electronics and magnetic recording, Spin transfer torque effect and devices, Advanced magnetic domain observation techniques, Permanent magnet materials for sustainable energy, Magneto caloric materials, Electric field induced changes of magnetism, Manipulation of cells by magnetism, Magnetization dynamics, Micromagnetic calculations, Spin calorics, Biomagnetism Smart Polymers (MSE 734) Introduction to smart polymers, Chemical responding polymers, Thermoresponsive polymers, pH sensitive polymers, Electroactive polymers, Light responding polymers, Magnetic responsive polymers, Self-healing polymers, Multiple stimuli polymers, Smart polymer hydrogels, Polymers for drug release, Shape memory polymers, Conductive polymers, Fire retardant polymers. Their design, structure, properties and characterization. Outlook for the future. Advanced welding and Joining (MSE 843) Gas metal arc welding, Advances in GMAW, Process measurements and control, Hybrid processes, Future trends, Tubular cored wire welding, principle, equipment, Advantages and disadvantages, Gas tungsten arc welding, keyhole GTAW process, Future developments, Laser beam welding, process, principle, Application of Laser beam welding, Laser output characteristics, Laser as a machine tool, New developments in Laser welding, Electron beam welding, Electron beam welding machine, Explosion welding, Developments in explosion welding, Capability and limitation, Ultrasonic metal welding, mechanics and metallurgy of ultrasonic welding. Biomaterials (MSE 878) Introduction to Biomaterials, Biocompatibility, biocompatibility issues of biomaterials, how to overcome these issues, Bio functionality, In vitro and in vivo testing, Tissue -biomaterial interactions, biological response with bio-materials, Metallic biomaterials, Organic biomaterials, Biomaterials processing and synthesis, Hydroxyapatite (HA) coatings, Materials selection for implants and prostheses, Dental materials, Orthodontic wires Shape memory alloys, Use of ß-Titanium and Ni-Ti alloys as biomaterials, Corrosion and biodegradation of biomaterials, Stress shielding effect, how to overcome stress shielding effects Applications of biomaterials. Chemical synthesis (MSE 889) The main objective of this course to get understanding of various synthetic routs coupled with chemical modification methods such as alkylation, sulfonation, esterfication etc, also it covers development and modernization of lightweight materials such as x-aerogels, x-foam, x-nanofiber etc. for aerospace applications. Note: Depending on the field subject specialization the DBGS can recommend the courses from the MS-list of courses or other relevant courses available in other departments of the IST. Advanced Characterization Techniques (MSE 631) Modern methods of materials characterization. X-ray techniques, X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Optical Microscopy and Spectroscopy, Ellipsometry, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), Raman spectroscopy, Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM), Particle Beam Analysis, Secondary Ion Mass Spectroscopy (SIMS), Rutherford Backscattering Spectroscopy (RBS) Finite Element Methods (AAE 732)
PLO-1. Engineering Knowledge: Students will be able to apply knowledge of mathematics, science & engineering fundamentals to the solution of complex problems related to materials engineering. PLO-2. Engineering Problem Analysis: Students will be able to identify, formulate, research literature and analyze complex engineering problems related to materials reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. PLO-3. Design / Development of Solutions: Students will be able to design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health & safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-4. Investigation: Students will be able to investigate complex materials related problems in a methodical way including literature survey, design and conduct of experiments, analysis and interpretation of experimental data, and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-5. Modern Tool Usage: Students will be able to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling, to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-6. Engineer and Society: Students will be able to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess safety, health, legal, societal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solution to complex engineering problems. PLO-7. Environment and Sustainability: Students will be able to understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development. PLO-8. Ethics: Students will be able to apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of engineering practice. PLO-9. Individual & Team Work: Students will be able to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and/or multi-disciplinary settings. PLO-10. Communication: Students will be able to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing, on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with the society at large, such as being able comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-11. Project Management: Students will be able to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-12. Life Long Learning: Students will be able to recognize importance of, and pursue life-long learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments.
Institute of space technology aim to provide and maintain safe & healthy working environment for its employees, students and to provide them with the necessary information, instructions and training to achieve them.
The program is offered as a full-time course with a duration of four years, extendable to six years according to IST's statues and HEC standards and rules; and leads, at the end of the program, to a BS degree in Biotechnology. The total credit hours are 132 and all students follow the same core courses; however, they may opt for different elective courses. The students who do not complete the program requirements are not awarded any degree; but they are provided with a transcript on their request. A student is said to have a good standing if his/her CGPA is 2.00 or more. However, student is cautioned if CGPA is 2.00 or above and SGPA falls below 2.00. A student is given the status of probation (Temporary Enrolment) if CGPA falls below 2.00, and if during probation his/her CGPA falls below 2.00 and SGPA is 2.00 or more then the student gets a second probation (Extended Temporary Enrolment). Student is dropped out if his/her SGPA is below 2.00 during probation (Temporary Enrolment) or his/her CGPA is below 2.00 during second probation (Extended Temporary Enrolment). The courses are categorized into four domains: general education cluster, minor, interdisciplinary, and major courses. In addition to passing all the courses with the required CGPA, the student has to attain all twelve PLOs, to earn a BS (Biotechnology) degree. "The Biotechnology program endeavors to foster future leaders in research, academia, and industry with a specialized undergraduate curriculum. Our focus on cutting-edge research aligns with the evolving needs of society, integrating principles that resonate with space technology, thereby advancing scientific exploration, entrepreneurship, and societal well-being." The objectives of the Biotechnology program are to empower our students to engage in critical thinking, rationalize information, and effectively apply acquired knowledge. Our aim is to equip them with the skills to formulate remedial strategies for addressing health, agricultural, industrial, and environmental challenges through the application of biotechnological techniques. PEO-1 The graduates will contribute competently to the industry related to biotechnology by applying requisite technical skills. PEO-2 The graduates will demonstrate advancement in their profession by enhancing their knowledge and skills in their relevant field. PEO-3 The graduates will demonstrate commitment to ethical values and contribute positively towards society. Knowledge An ability to apply fundamental and specialized knowledge of biotechnology to the solution of complex biotechnological problems. PLO-2 Hypothesis Formulation An ability to identify, formulate, research literature, analyze complex biotechnology problems, reaching substantiated conclusions towards formulation of hypothesis using fundamental principles of biotechnology. PLO-3 Experiment/ Process Design An ability to design experimental solutions to validate biotechnology Hypothesis and design process while maintaining biotechnology standards, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PLO-4 Investigation An ability to investigate complex issues in biotechnology in a methodical way including literature survey, and development of systems, analysis and interpretation of experimental data, and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-5 Modern Tool Usage An ability to select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern tools, including prediction and modeling, to complex biotechnology activities, with an understanding of the limitations. PLO-6 Impact Analysis An ability to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional biotechnology practice and solution to complex biotechnology problems. PLO-7 Management Skills An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply biotechnology principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-8 Team Work An ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and /or multidisciplinary settings. PLO-9 Ethics Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of biotechnology practice. PLO-10 Communication An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing, on complex biotechnology activities with the biotechnology community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PLO-11 Project Management An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-12 Lifelong LearningAn ability to recognize the importance of, and pursue lifelong learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments. CELL BIOLOGY Introduction to cell theory, structure, chemical constituents of cell and cell organelles and their functions, separation of cell organelles, Cell membrane, its molecular organization and functional role, The concept of the unit membrane, the fluid mosaic model, membrane receptors and transport mechanisms. MICROBIOLOGY and Virology Introduction and scope of Microbiology, Historical foundations of Microbiology, General characteristics of Microbes, methods of Microbiology, bacterial forms and ultrastructure, microbial nutrition, cultivation, reproduction and growth, Metabolic characteristics, symbiotic relationships, taxonomy, classification, nomenclature of microorganism/bacteria. BIOCHEMISTRY Introduction to biochemistry, amino acids and proteins, general functions, classification, primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary structure, Fibrous and globular proteins, Protein stability, Protein folding. Enzyme nomenclature and classification, co-factors and co-enzymes, general characteristics of enzymatic reactions. RECOMBINANT DNA TECHNOLOGY Introduction and History of Recombinant DNA technology, Basic techniques, gel electrophoresis, Blotting techniques, restriction endonucleases, restriction mapping, vectors and their types, cloning vectors, transformations, Polymerase Chain reaction, Cloning strategies, Site-directed mutagenesis. Sequencing strategies, Application of recombinant DNA Technology (agriculture, health, industry, environment, and basic research).
The curriculum for undergraduate program in Materials Science & Engineering leading to the award of Bachelor of Science degree is well-balanced to cater the expectations of the Pakistani Industry as well as the requirements of post-graduate education of the universities world over. The program is in compliance with the criteria set forth by Higher Education Commission & Pakistan Engineering Council and the graduates qualify for job opportunities in the countries which are signatory of Washington Accord.
Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering) Abbasyn University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Electrical Power
Assistant Professor PhD (Materials Engineering) Hanyang University, South KoreaArea of Specialization:Advanced Materials for Energy Applications
Professor PhD Beihang University, Beijing, ChinaArea of Specialization:Secure Communications & Information Systems
Research Associate MS (Physics)COMSATS University IslamabadMSc (Physics)University of Sargodha SargodhaBSc (Physics)Govt. College JhangArea of Specialization:Numerical Simulation of Vacuum Systems, Rarefied Simulation
Professor PhD Queen's University Belfast, UKArea of Specialization:Antennas for Space and Land Communications92.51.9075425amin@ist.edu.pk
Research Associate B.Sc. (Mechanical Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology Taxila, PakistanArea of Specialization:Maintenance/Reliability Engineering
Associate Professor PhD (General & Fundamental Mechanics) Beijing Institute of Technology ChinaArea of Specialization:Non Linear Dynamics, Fluid Mechanics 92.51.9075587muhammad.aqeel@ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS (Computer System Engineering)GIK Institute, PakistanArea of Specialization:Data Science, Machine Learning and Feature EngineeringAbroad for PhD
Head of Department PhD University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) Beijing, ChinaArea of Specialization:GIS, Remote Sensing, & Glacier Geomorphology92.21.34650765 Ext: 2219ateeq.qureshi@ist.edu.pk
Snr. Research Associate BSc (Chemical Engineering)NFC Institute of Engg & Tech MultanMS (Processing Engineering)Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences IslamabadArea of Specialization:Process Engineering
Lecturer MS IST, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Mechanical Design and Analysis92.51.9075521azfar.jamal@ist.edu.pk
Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Materials Engineering
Assistant Professor M. Phil (Microelectronics Engineering) Punjab University, PakistanArea of Specialization:VLSI Design & Fabrication
Lecturer MS Software Engineering COMSATS University, ISLAMABADArea of Specialization:Deep Learning and Machine Learning
Snr. Research Associate MS (Materials Science & Engineering)Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadBS (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology, LahoreArea of Specialization:Material Characterization, Failure Analysis
Assistant Professor PhD University of Twente (ITC)Enschede, the NetherlandsArea of Specialization:Microwave & Optical Remote Sensingjahanzeb.malik@ist.edu.pk
Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech, Lahore MS (Mechanical Engineering) National University of Science & Tech, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnostics of Mechanical Systems, Vibration Analaysis and balancing of Turbomachinery
Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering)IST IslamabadArea of Specialization:Deep Learning, Hyperspectral Image Analysis, Computer VisionAbroad for PhD
Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech TaxilaArea of Specialization:Quality Management System, Inspection & Testing
Research Associate BS (Mechanical Engineering)NUST, EME College RawalpindiArea of Specialization:Mechanical Design
Snr. Research Associate - Adjunct Faculty BSc (Electrical)University of Engg & Tech LahoreMSc (Power Electronics)The University of Nottingham United KingdomArea of Specialization:Power Electronics
Research Associate BE (Chemical Engineering)National University of Science & Tech IslamabadMS (Process Engineering)Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences IslamabadArea of Specialization:Polymers & Polymeric Composites
Lecturer MS (Computer Science) GIK Institute, PakistanArea of Specialization:Evolutionary Computing and Information Security
Professor MSc Aerospace Propulsion, Cranfield University, UK. PhD Aircraft Propulsion, Cranfield University, UK.Area of Specialization:Gas Turbines Performance (Modelling & Simulation)
Professor/Head of Department PhD (Applied Mathematics)QAU, IslamabadPakistanArea of Specialization:Computational Fluid Dynamics 92.51.9075478muhammad.nawaz@ist.edu.pk
Lab Engineer BS (Electrical Engineering)International Islamic University IslamabadMS (Electrical Engineering)Muhammad Ali Jinnah University IslamabadArea of Specialization:Control Systems, Signal Processing, Embedded Systems
Research Associate BSc (Metallurgy and Materials Engg)University of Engg & Tech, LahoreMS (Materials Engineering)GIKI, TopiArea of Specialization:Nanomaterials, Advance Ceramics
Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Computational Fluid Dynamics
Research Associate BSc (Mechanical Engineering) University of Engg & Tech, LahoreArea of Specialization:-
Associate Professor PhD Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing ChinaArea of Specialization:Agriculture Remote Sensing, ForestryHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorm.shakir@mail.ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD Politecnico Di Torino ItalyArea of Specialization:Non Linear Vibration Dynamics and Machine Designmuhammad.umer@ist.edu.pk Dr. Muhammad Umer, presently working as Assistant Professor and Head Mechanical & Design Analysis (MDA) Research Group of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, IST, Islamabad. He has been working in the field of Nonlinear Vibration Dynamics of the Turbomachinery for the past 8 years. He has worked on several R&D projects at international level in collaboration with General Electric (GE) Italy and developed a novel state of the art Test Rig for turbine blades vibration mitigation.
Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Aerodynamic Design & Analysis
Assistant Professor PhD (Physics)Area of Specialization:Particle Astrophysics and CosmologyHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorusman.muhammad@mail.ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Electrical Engineering), University of Engineering and Technology Taxila, PakistanArea of Specialization:Control Systems
Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Aerospace Vehicle Design
Assistant Professor PhD (Materials Science & Engineering (Thermal Spray Coatings) Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan China Area of Specialization:Materials Science and EngineeringHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Adjunct Faculty PhDUniversity of Essex, UKArea of Specialization:Hardware security and energy/performance optimization in reconfigurable MPSoC architectures
Assistant Professor MS George Washington University, USAArea of Specialization:Data and Computer Communications92.51.9075644m.zahid@ist.edu.pk
Professor Brunel University Uxbridge Middlesex West London England (U.K)Area of Specialization:DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075534
Associate Professor / Head of Department PhD TSINGHUA University, ChinaArea of Specialization:Climate Variability and Change; Extreme Events; South Asian Summer Monsoon Dynamics; Regional Climate Modeling; Hydrological Modeling; Climate Change Impact Assessment on Water ResourcesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075556mujtaba@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD in Geodesy and GNSSShanghai Astronomical Observatory, CAS, ChinaArea of Specialization:GNSS ionosphere modelling; GNSS-R; Earthquake Precursors in atmosphere and ionosphere; GNSS Space WeatherHEC Approved Ph.D SupervisorMunawar.shah@mail.ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor / Chairman National Centre of GIS and Space Applications PhD (Aerospace Engineering)Northwestern Polytechnical University (NPU) ChinaArea of Specialization:Spacecraft Dynamics and Controls, Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) 92.51.9075578najam.naqvi@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD Harbin Engineering University, ChinaArea of Specialization:Aerodynamics of turbomachinery, Turbine blade Cooling, Flutter and Computational Fluid DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Dr. Naseem Ahmad completed his PhD from Harbin Engineering University in the field of Power Engineering and Engineering Thermophysics and currently working as an Assistant Professor in the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan. He has ten years of strong industrial and academic experience in the field of Mechanical and Power Engineering. His research area includes computational fluid dynamics, turbine blade cooling, aerodynamics of turbomachinery, two phase flow alternative fuels.
A team from the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad attended National Peace Festival 2023 from September 20-21, 2023 organized by NACTA.
Lecturer MS Computer Engineering, GIKIArea of Specialization:Advanced Machine learning and Computer Vision
Institute of Space Technology (IST), following its vision of establishing state of the art Centers of Excellence which would chart a path across all the academic departments/programs of our institute, established Failure Analysis Center (FAC) in March 2013, which has now been upgraded to a national level facility “National Center for Failure Analysis (NCFA)”. NCFA will not only provide a place for research to all the faculty and PhD/MS scholars, but will also be a resource for providing solutions of materials related services to local industry and various defense and strategic organizations. This initiative is expected to fill a large void, as services being offered at NCFA are currently not available in the country under a single umbrella. It would support a variety of industries by conducting Material Analysis (MA), Failure Analysis (FA), Structural Integrity Assessment (SIA) and providing Material & Process Advisory Services (MPAS). The facility, while still in its infancy, has already commenced to provide consultancy in the following areas: In order to provide above stated services/advisory, NCFA has opted to follow modern trends being practiced worldwide in relevant fields/domains. This approach entails: NCFA plans to enhance the scope of its advisory/services gradually in a phased manner.
NCFA is the national center for Failure Analysis, established with the support of the Ministry of Science and Technology. The center is an integral component of Institute of Space Technology (IST) which is being administered & technically managed by the Director NCFA. The team of domain experts in NCFA support the public and private industry as well as other organizations as per the laid down policies/procedures.
NCFA believes in delighting its valued customers all the way by offering one window, customized, flexible, cost effective, comprehensive, wide ranging and authentic solutions as per their specific needs pertaining to issues/matters related to metallurgy, especially in the field of Failure Analyses. NCFA expects that our high quality and timely delivered services shall be instrumental in establishing long term relations with our valued customers thereby entailing a win-win situation for all. NCFA fully realizes the sensitivity of its services and their long term legal and safety implications; by default we consider ourselves accountable for all our actions and find under moral obligation to perform all agreed tasks (within contractual terms & conditions) with integrity & secrecy while maintaining impartiality.
This is a systematic process of identifying the factors that caused a failure and the actions that can be taken to prevent or mitigate future failures. RCFA can help you improve the reliability and performance of your equipment, reduce maintenance costs, and enhance safety. This is a non-destructive technique of obtaining the microstructure of a metal or alloy without damaging the original specimen. Replica metallography can be used to evaluate the condition of in-service components, such as welds, heat-affected zones, coatings, and corrosion products. This is a comprehensive evaluation of the extent and severity of corrosion damage on a material or structure. Corrosion damage assessment can help you determine the root cause of corrosion, the remaining life of the component, the risk of failure, and the best remedial actions. This is a process of analyzing the design and functionality of a product or system by taking it apart and examining its components. Reverse engineering can help you understand how something works, improve its performance, or create a new product based on an existing one. This is a method of estimating the remaining useful life of a component or system based on its current condition, operating history, and expected future conditions. RLA can help you optimize the maintenance and replacement schedules, extend the service life, and reduce the risk of failure. This is a technique of predicting the number of cycles or hours that a component or system can withstand before it fails due to fatigue. Fatigue life estimation can help you design and select materials that can resist fatigue, evaluate the effect of loading and environmental conditions, and prevent premature failures. This is an assessment of the ability of a component or system to continue to operate safely and reliably in its current or intended service. FFS can help you evaluate the impact of defects, damage, or degradation on the structural integrity, functionality, and performance of the component or system. This is an evaluation of the degree and distribution of creep damage on a material or structure. Creep damage assessment can help you identify the factors that influence creep, measure the creep strain and rupture life, and determine the best repair or replacement options. This is a process of ensuring that a structure can withstand the applied loads and environmental conditions without failure or excessive deformation. SIA can help you verify the design and construction of the structure, monitor its condition and performance, and detect and prevent potential failures. These are customized courses and workshops that provide you with the knowledge and skills to perform various services related to materials engineering, failure analysis, and structural integrity. Specialized trainings can help you enhance your technical competence, professional development, and career advancement. This is a service that provides you with expert advice and guidance on the selection, testing, and application of materials for your specific needs and requirements. Material advisory can help you choose the best materials for your project, optimize their properties and performance, and solve any material-related problems.
Realizing the fact that many of the developed countries are already drawing tangible benefits of geospatial technologies in a variety of discipline areas, while developing countries like Pakistan are merely a user of these technologies and its applications, a well-equipped Department of Remote Sensing and Geo-Information Science (RS&GISc) is established at Karachi to serve as a Centre of Excellence called National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geo-informatics (NCRG). The National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geo-informatics is mandated to fill in this technological awareness and skill development gap and to draw optimum benefits through these technologies in various national programmes. The Department runs under the Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad. It has a mandate to offer a wide range of educational programs including short trainings and Master program in varied disciplines of Remote Sensing and GIS. The Master degree in RS&GISc is an intensive program for students who are interested in exploring the emerging space technologies and its applications in different disciplines. The Department of Remote Sensing and Geo-information Science (RS&GISc) provides a powerful platform for scholars, professionals, students, public and private sector organizations to broaden their vision in space-related technologies and applications.
The job placements in space technologies applications have a strong characteristic of diversity and multidisciplinary contributing to all socio-economic activities of the country. The employment prospects for students having MS in RS&GIS are good. The graduates should be able to get jobs depending upon the specialization they done in the following organizations as shown in the table.
Head of Department PhD University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) Beijing, ChinaArea of Specialization: GIS, Remote Sensing, & Glacier Geomorphology Assistant Professor PhD University of Twente (ITC)Enschede, the NetherlandsArea of Specialization: Microwave & Optical Remote Sensing Lecturer MS Institute of Space Technology, NCRG KarachiArea of Specialization: Remote Sensing and GISc Lecturer MS Institute of Space Technology NCRG KarachiArea of Specialization: Geography, Hydrology, Microwave Remote Sensing & GIS Lecturer MS National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (NUCES-FAST), KarachiArea of Specialization: Data Science, Machine Learning , Artificial Intelligence & Deep Learning
The MS program in Remote Sensing and Geo-Information Science is designed for imparting expertise in the science, methods, and applications of these exponentially growing fields. The job market is vast and varied, with the growing need for experts in these fields in both the government and commercial sector. The nature of possible careers is spread over a wide canvas: research, planning and development, advising the decision-makers, or the application and service providing sector. Some of the options include:
Remote sensing and GIS applications are becoming popular in local and federal government agencies, non-governmental organizations, private sector, and more recently at the individual level. Geospatial information is driving a broad spectrum of decision-making in many disciplines. Some of the major tasks, that are employing geospatial data and tools, include land-use and town planning, environmental monitoring and impact assessment, natural hazards and disasters mapping, utility resource management and agriculture, and studying the causes and consequences of global climate change. The use of geospatial technology is expanding in many other fields as well like network designing, human health, real estate, etc. Since the establishment of National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geo-informatics (NCRG), our primary goal is to train future leaders with high-quality professional education in geospatial technologies and its applications. The aim of the Department of Remote Sensing and Geo-information Science (RS&GISc) is to disseminate professional knowledge through quality teaching, research and its applications in various disciplines. In our creative and attractive curriculum, we strive to integrate the latest developments in remote sensing, GIS, spatial programming and modelling through advanced research techniques. Our dedicated faculty graduated from world renowned universities nurtures our leading-edge research programs in remote sensing, GIS, geo-informatics, spatial programming, and modelling etc. We strive to ensure that our graduates will have a strong education with leadership, internship experience, management and teaming skills, and involvement in curriculum and co-curriculum activities. We commend that highlighting these areas will make our graduates well-qualified to take leadership roles in the future. We attempt to provide our graduates with a cheerful, productive and satisfying experience at all levels of their study program to explore the amazing world of geospatial technologies and its applications. With this, we welcome you all to NCRG at the Institute of Space Technology. Muhammad Ateeq Qureshi Head of Department
The Department of Remote Sensing and Geo-information Science runs a Bachelor of Science in Remote Sensing & Geo-Information Science (BS-RS&GISc) program to provide a platform for students getting knowledge about geospatial technologies. This program provides a sound foundation to the young-generation in Remote Sensing (RS) and Geo-information Science (GISc) to fulfill the demands of their profession in these technologies. This program will also fill in the geospatial technologies awareness and skill development gap for drawing optimum benefits from these technologies in various fields. The nature of possible careers is spread over a wide canvas that includes the following; *Candidates with FSc Pre-Medical / equivalent qualification enrolled in BS Computer Science program will have to clear deficient Mathematics courses of 6 credit hours, within one year
To be recognized as a frontrunner in Remote Sensing and GIS technologies through quality education and research by exploring space technologies and its applications for healthier future and socio-economic development of the country. To explore new avenue in the field of Remote Sensing and Geographic Information System (GIS) technologies and developing new techniques in operational utilization of RS & GIS technologies in various fields.
The Department of Avionics Engineering proudly established "EMC Solutions," an advanced EMC test facility, which recently welcomed a distinguished delegation from the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC). This momentous visit by the PAEC delegation, alongside the EMC Solutions team, marked an important milestone in collaboration. Air Commodore Sardar Ahmed and Air Commodore Irfan Majid provided an insightful briefing on the EMC lab's capabilities, imparting valuable information on its cutting-edge technology and potential applications. Conducting an illuminating practical demonstration, Lab Engineers Bilal Ahmed and Maha, supported by the technical expertise of Lab Technicians Waseeq and Farhan, showcased the facility's prowess and technical excellence. Subsequently, a significant meeting was held to discuss terms and conditions for mutual cooperation between PAEC and EMC Solutions. The focus was on establishing a framework for collaborative growth, including resource sharing. PAEC expressed keen interest in the theoretical and technical training offered by EMC Solutions, extending an invitation for EMC's delegation to visit their own EMC lab. Moreover, PAEC sought collaboration on Avionics students' final year projects, envisioning assistance in simulations and diagnostic design for electrical circuits. Contact details were exchanged between the EMC Solutions and PAEC delegates to further deliberate on the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), laying the groundwork for a promising partnership. This interaction signifies a promising synergy between PAEC and EMC Solutions, aimed at mutual growth, knowledge exchange, and collaborative ventures in the field of Avionics Engineering.
IST Tennis Club organized a lawn tennis friendly match between Mr. Abdullah Shafqat (NUST) and Mr. Muhammad Bilal Farooq (IST). The match was played on January 2, 2023 at IST Tennis Court. Mr. Muhammad Bilal Farooq won the match by (6-0) and (6-4).
Mr. Ch. Nadeem A Rauf, Former President RCCI, chaired the first kickoff meeting of IST Industrial Advisory Board – Working group on “Student Career Counseling and Placement” today (February 1, 2023) in which various aspects of students’ placements and career counseling were highlighted. A way forward was planned towards the increased employment of students in industries through promoting Academia Industry Liaison.
IPO Pakistan in collaboration with NUST has arranged a "tech summit" on 6th Dec, 2023 at NUST, Islamabad campus to show case innovative technology products / projects. Chief guest of this event is D-DG WIPO (Sylvie Forbin). The event is organized to promote the contribution of Pakistani universities in advancement of technology and innovation. Our students and Alumni had the privilege of participating in the summit that brought together representatives from WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization) and the Pakistan IP organization. The focal point of the summit was Intellectual Property (IP), and it provided an invaluable opportunity for learning and networking. During the exhibition, various university students showcased their diverse projects. Attendees, including industrial professionals, engaged in meaningful interactions with students, posing queries about their projects and offering insights into professional life. The event provided a valuable platform for knowledge exchange and networking within the academic and industrial realms. ?
Institution of mechanical engineers (IMechE) IST CHAPTER in collaboration with ASHRAE, ASME, and Department of Student Affairs organized Mechatron from January 4-6, 2023. The event included technical competitions, workshops and career counselling session. Students from different departments participated in the overall event. Following are the results of the technical competitions organized during the event: In addition to the technical competition, ANSYS Workshop was organized for the students of IST on January 4, 2023. 40 students from different departments participated in the workshop. The workshop was conducted by Mr. Muhammad Hamad Asif, an alumnus of IST. IMechE IST Chapter, also organized SOLIDWORKS Workshop on the January 5, 2023. A total of 35 students from various departments participated in this workshop. A career counselling and motivational session was organized on January 6, 2023 in IST Auditorium. Mr. Umair Jaliawala was the guest speaker. About 220 students along with faculty members attended the session.
"EMC Solutions," the newly established EMC test facility within the Avionics Engineering Department, recently hosted a delegation from the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex (PAC). This visit proved insightful as the PAC team, accompanied by representatives from EMC Solutions, undertook a comprehensive tour of the testing facility situated at IST. Air Commodore Sardar Ahmed and Air Commodore Irfan Majid facilitated an in-depth overview of the EMC lab during an informative briefing session. Following this, Lab Engineers Bilal Ahmed and Maha conducted a hands-on demonstration, effectively showcasing the facility's robust capabilities. Their demonstration was enriched by the technical expertise contributed by Lab Technicians Waseeq and Farhan. Post the demonstration, a formal meeting was convened to deliberate and finalize the terms and conditions for mutual cooperation between PAC and EMC Solutions. The meeting centered on cultivating a collaborative partnership aimed at fostering mutual growth and support between both entities.
First National CanSat Competition of Pakistan concluded at Institute of Space Technology on 27 April 2024 under the patronage of Space Education Research lab of National Center of GIS and Space Applications. 25 Teams from 10 Universities of Pakistan participated in the three month long event including various interactive learning sessions, boot camp and workshops. Teams were evaluated on the basis of functional CanSat , PDR, CDR, FDR, Research Paper, Research Poster and final launch by the quadcopter. The Champion award of 100,000 PKR was shared by Quaid-e-Azam University and College of Aeronautical Engineering Risalpur while the runner up award of 50,000 PKR was shared by Institute of Space Technology and University Of Central Punjab.
IST organized a 4-day international workshop on "Development of CubeSat (ICUBE-Q) for Lunar Mission" from 4-7March 2024. ICUBE-Q is a CubeSat that has been designed and developed by IST in collaboration with Shanghai University SJTU. It will be launched via Chinese Chang'e6 in 2024.
ICUBE-Q was succesfully launched on 3rd May 2024 and succesfully deployed in Lunar orbit on 8th May 2024. Initial images of Moon as well as Sun have been received from ICUBE-Q from the farthest point in its elliptical orbit.
The 13th IST Open House concluded successfully with the participation of over 45 organizations & Industries.
Office of Research, Innovation and Commercialization (ORIC) was established at Institute of Space Technology (IST) under the aegis of Higher Education Commission (HEC) in June 2011. ORIC is mandated to manage and advance the university’s strategic initiatives around Research and Development (R&D). The office oversees a variety of functional areas, such as, Research Operations & Development, University-industry Linkages, Professional Development, Intellectual Property Rights, Business Incubation and Technology Transfer. ORIC has been focusing to create an enabling environment for IST students, faculty and researchers to conduct world-class research, accomplish Industry-focused projects, translate academic research into products and services, and commercialize IP. ORIC also serves as the point of contact for National R&D organizations, Other Academia, Industry, National and International donor agencies to foster stakeholder collaboration for joint R&D initiatives.
Irfan Majid, PE Dr Muhammad Amin, PE Sardar Ahmad, PE
Associate Professor PhD University of BREST, FranceArea of Specialization:Failure in CompositesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075695owais.shah@ist.edu.pk Dr. Owais ur Rahman Shah is an Associate Professor at the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan. He has been involved in Manufacturing of hardware and precision components for various industrial applications for the past 7 years at IST. His specialization is the manufacturability and life cycle of polymer based composite materials in which he holds his doctorate. Currently, he is heading the manufacturing facilities at IST-ME. The manufacturing, customization and assembly of all hardware shall be handled primarily by this member and his team.
The graduating students of Electrical Engineering at IST Mr Osama and Mr Adam have won the Prime Minister Youth Innovation Award 2023 for their project 'Design and Development of Multi-platform Surveillance System' under the supervision of faculty members Mr Muhammad Asad and Mr Tufail.
Professor PhD University of Surrey, UKArea of Specialization:Satellite Communication / Space Systems92.51.9075428qamar.islam@ist.edu.pk
IST has established a proper feedback system for assessing requirements of its stakeholders including student, faculty, and industry, statutory and regulatory bodies. The Quality Enhancement Cell is responsible to ensure that these requirements are gathered and acquired in a reliable manner and properly addressed at the departmental as well as the Vice Chancellor Quality Assurance Committee. IST Feedback system is based on the following important characteristics:
Director QEC is member of following statutory bodies of IST:
To continually achieve and enhance excellence for the satisfaction of stakeholders in the institutional processes and service delivery.
Objectively measure IST’s Academic and institutional systems by recognized quality standards and assure improvements on continual basis.
S/No Training / Workshop / Seminar Dates
The modern age is the age of knowledge. Knowledge knows no boundaries and brings comfort and ease in the human life. These aspects of knowledge have put a lot of responsibility on the institutions of higher learning. It will not be wrong to say that the development of a country depends on the quality of education being imparted at various levels, especially at the tertiary level. We at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) are fully aware that our credibility as an organization and the intellectual vitality of our students can be maintained by providing quality education which meets the standards upheld by the renowned universities of the world. Quality control and assurance is at the heart of the various activities taking place at IST. The involvement of every department of the university in this activity provides a comprehensive evaluation of the existing situation and gives a chance to the team to workout innovative solutions to any problems identified in the process. Our quality control functions are on sound systems and procedures, which allow continuous review and improvement of teaching methodologies, results and the facilities of research being provided to our student’s .The regular check and monitoring of educational standards will enable our students to explore the broad frontiers of modern science with confidence and determination.
Ensuring Quality Enhancement on Continual basis through adherence of world class Quality Standards at IST.
Lecturer M.Phil. in American Studies Quaid-i-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:English Linguistics and Literature
Head of Department PhD (Structural Design of Flight Vehicle)Aeronautical & Astronautical Science and TechnologySchool of Astronautics, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an, ChinaArea of Specialization:Structural Design & AnalysisHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075512raees.swati@ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor PhD (Applied Mathematics)QAU, IslamabadPakistanArea of Specialization:Fluid Mechanics 92.51.9075562rahila.naz@ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS Institute of Space Technology NCRG KarachiArea of Specialization:Geography, Hydrology, Microwave Remote Sensing & GIS
Reeda Saeed is a Lecturer in the department of Electrical Engineering. Masters in Computer Science Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute (GIKI)Area of Specialization:AI in Healthcare
Associate Professor PhD (Satellite Communication)Beihang University, ChinaArea of Specialization:Spacecraft Engineering92.51.9075483rehan.mahmood@ist.edu.pk
Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Structural Design & Analysis
Lab Engineer BS Avionics Engineering Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Avionics System Design and Radar Systems
Lecturer MS IST, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Mechanical Design and Analysis Nonlinear Vibration, Structural Dynamics, and Control Systems.
Assistant Professor PhD (Electronic & Information Engineering)Beihang University, ChinaArea of Specialization:Satellite Navigation, Signal Processing92.51-9075430zaineb.farooq@ist.edu.pk
Department of Students Affairs was established at the Institute of Space Technology with the objective to serve IST students, by addressing their needs related to co-curricular & extracurricular activities. Department of Student Affairs works in order to:
The Department of Student Affairs empower IST students by providing them a range of experiences to make their on-campus stay valued and memorable. We believe in upholding a balance of academic and co-curricular engagements that is vital for grooming students into well-rounded personalities and thus equip them with skills to fulfill their professional aspirations. We are committed to broaden students’ horizons and to inspire a sense of belonging with their alma mater. Department of Student Affairs strives to foster insights of teamwork, leadership, civic engagement and morality in students by providing various avenues for their personal and professional development. Our efforts are inclined towards effective student engagement so that we accomplish the important task of strengthening the society with an influx of responsible citizens. Raza Butt Head/ Additional Director Department of Student Affairs
Head/ Additional Director 051-9075454razabutt@IST.edu.pk Internship, Placements & Alumni Affairs 051-9075819abdul.rahman@ist.edu.pk Sports & Student Societies 051-9075499waqas.joiya@IST.edu.pk Creative Graphics Designing 051-9075476adeel@ist.edu.pk Data Management and Records 051-9075651 Sports Coach Sports Coach
The Department of Student Affairs is engaged in empowering students by facilitating them for their placement in industry. For their professional development, this office organizes various placement orientated sessions for the students where they can learn about their career choices from professionals in different fields of interest. Technically sound and managerially efficient graduates of IST are ranked among top professionals by numerous employers. We make sure that our students get the best placement opportunities as soon as they graduate from IST. Every year at Open House, IST invites numerous employers from Public and Private organizations and provides a platform to fresh graduates for their placements.
IST believes that exposure with industry is essential for students to comprehend their potential working environment. To this end, Department of Student Affairs provides internship opportunities to students and ensures that all the processes of student internships go flawlessly by coordinating with all academic departments within IST and industries nationally.
The sports events are held on league basis at IST. The winning teams of the pool matches compete in the final for the title. The winner team is awarded with the Departmental Trophy. The best players (Male/Female) of the respective sports events are awarded Gold Medals during the Annual Award Ceremony in which parents of the winning students are also invited.
IST has full time sports coaches (Male & Female) and a physical fitness trainer. In addition, the external sports coaches having experience in national sports events are also invited to train students and enable them to improve their skills in various sports.
Sports play a great role in life of a student as it keeps students healthy and active. Being involved in sports activities benefits students in many ways. It not only provides physical strength; it also increases their mental abilities. Playing together as team develops a sense of team spirit and facilitate in building strong relationship with each other. IST holds sports competitions among its various departments. In addition to the interdepartmental sports activities, students have ample opportunities for routine sports activities during their free time between classes and in the afternoon.
IST has provided students with the facilities of indoor and outdoor games. Indoor facilities including fully equipped physical fitness gym, Snooker, Foosball, Carom, Chess and Table Tennis. Outdoor facilities available to students are Cricket and Football grounds, Lawn Tennis, Volleyball, Basketball and Futsal Court. The students are encouraged to play in their spare time.
DD Admin 0321-8558281 Lab Eng. (EE) 0313-6252229 Physical Trainer 0316-5571471 MS&E; - Senior 0333-6136787 AERO- Senior AVE - Junior EE - Junior
Assistant Professor EE 0322-8904191 Additional Director Maintenance & Civil Works 0323-5353317 President GYM ME-08 0337-9690690 Vice President SS-08 Coordinator ME-10 0315-5111882 Secretary ME-10 0332-0332211 Student Member Aero-20 0306-0505673 Student Member AVE-07 0313-3000066 Student Member MATH-03 0309-5931005 Student Member AERO-20 0305-425553 Student Member AERO-20 0345-0505016
Deputy Director - Admin 0307-5327492 Lecturer - Space Science 0332-5465047 Imam Masjid 0321-9541577 Junior Year - Mechanical Engineering 0315-5751453 Junior Year - Electrical Engineering 0331-5750778 Sophomore Year - Electrical Engineering 0334-5077990
Lecturer EE 0306-5676268 Assistant Director Admin 0344-5619459 Senior Year CS-01 0300-1820248 Senior Year EE-18 A
Deputy Director Admin 0307-5327492 Lecturer EE 0312-9554499 Junior Year Aero 0320-7243918
Lab Engineer MS (Mechanical Engineering)Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Non-Linear Dynamic and Control
Associate Professor PhD (Carbon Composites) Universite des Sciences et Technologies de Lille 1 Lille, FranceArea of Specialization:3D Woven Carbon Composites & their Structural Health Monitoring 92.51.9075482saad.nauman@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor Phd Aerospace Engineering University of Dayton, OHIO USAArea of Specialization:Fluid Dynamics
Assistant Professor PhD (Computational Mathematics) COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI), IslamabadArea of Specialization:Numerical Methods, Numerical Simulations, Computational Fluid DynamicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Lecturer M. Phil Pakistan Studies Quaid-e Azam University IslamabadArea of Specialization:Water Resource Management and Freedom Movement in Punjab
Assistant Professor PhD University of Montpellier, FranceArea of Specialization:Physics (Gamma-ray astronomy, High energy astronomy and astrophysics, Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes, Monte Carlo simulations, Gamma-ray bursts)saeeda.sajjad@mail.ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor PhD (Chemistry) QAU, Islamabad M. Phil (Chemistry) QAU, Islamabad, Pakistan Area of Specialization:Polymer Chemistry 92.51.9075423saima.shabbir@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor MS (Engineering Management) CASE, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Electronics / Engineering Management92.51.9075429saima@ist.edu.pk
Adjunct Faculty PhDUniversity of Edinburgh, UKArea of Specialization:Fault tolerant IC Design
Associate Professor PhD Tsinghua University, Beijing, ChinaArea of Specialization: Energy Materials, Functional Materials, Physics of Materials, Advanced Characterization TechniquesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorsajid.butt@ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor Postdoc University of St Andrews, UKPhD Vienna University of Technology, AustriaMS Erasmus Mundus Space Master, University of Würzburg, Germany and University of Würzburg, SwedenArea of Specialization:Photogrammetry, Computer Vision, Remote Sensing, Machine Learning, CubesatsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorsajid.ghuffar@mail.ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS (Mechatronics Engineering), National University of Sciences and Technology, PakistanArea of Specialization:Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS)
Lecturer MS National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (NUCES-FAST), KarachiArea of Specialization:Data Science, Machine Learning , Artificial Intelligence & Deep Learning
Associate Professor PhD (Materials Science & Engineering) University of Twente, The NetherlandsArea of Specialization:Nano-TechnologyHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075502sajid.ullah@ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor Postdoc University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB), USAPhD University of Twente, NetherlandsArea of Specialization: (Remote Sensing of Vegetation) Remote sensing/GIS, Multispectral and Hyperspectral Remote SensingHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisorsaleem.ullah@mail.ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD (Statistics)Quaid-e-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Bayesian Control Chart (Statistics)HEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075779salma.riaz@ist.edu.pk
Professor PhD (General & Fundamental Mechanics) Beijing Institute of Technology ChinaArea of Specialization:Non Linear Dynamics, Fluid Mechanics 90.51.9075503salman.ahmad@ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS (Electrical engineering) IST PakistanArea of Specialization:Wireless Communications
Research Associate MS (Chemical Engineering)National University of Sciences & Technology, IslamabadBSc (Chemical Engineering)University of Engineering & Technology, LahoreArea of Specialization:Heat Transfer, Refrigeration
Assistant Professor MS NUST IslamabadArea of Specialization:Avionics92.51.9075690sardar.ahmad@ist.edu.pk
Lab Engineer/ MS Academic Coordinator MS Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Science, Computer Engineeringshahanshah.abbas@mail.ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS University of Houston, USAArea of Specialization:Computational Fluid Dynamics Certified Hexagon CMM Operator Low-Cost Plastic Recycling Machine funded by PSF Computational Flow Analysis in Additive Manufacturing and Roboforming
Lecturer MS Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Wireless Communication Systems
Lecturer MS (Aerospace Engineering), Northwestern Polytechnical University, ChinaArea of Specialization:Aero Vehicle Design
Space Science is the study and research of issues specifically related to space flight/ travel and space exploration. It comprises of interdisciplinary fields e.g. Stellar, Solar, Galactic and Extragalactic Astronomy, Planetary Science and Physical Cosmology, Astrobiology, Astrochemistry, Astrophysics, Space Plasma Physics, Orbital Mechanics/ Astrodynamics, Atmospheric/ Environmental Science, Satellite and Space Communications, Space Systems, Space Environment and Space Medicine. Rapidly growing subjects of Space Science in the present era of information technology are in process of evolution from the state of infancy to the advanced levels at academic and research institutions. The significant subjects falling under the umbrella of Space Science comprise Remote Sensing, Satellite Applications, Space Physics, Astrodynamics, Atmospheric Science etc. The courses offered in the department are the main building blocks of Space Science. Emphasis has also been given to research and applications-oriented areas such as Flight Dynamics and Control, Space Mission Design and Analysis, Space Data Processing and Geoinformatics. The Space Science uses new space-age technologies like satellite positioning, space data visualizations, analysis tools and space data interpretation to greatly advance scientific understanding of Earth and its systems. With the launch of Earth resources satellites in Low Earth Orbit and Communication Satellites in Geostationary and various other orbits around the Earth, space based observatory mission, deep space probes and robots for planetary explorations; the last decade has witnessed a wide spectrum of applications in diverse fields subject to the need and quality of imagery datasets acquired from the Earth orbiting satellites. The advances in computing technology & techniques have also contributed a lot in the development of more sophisticated than ever sensors capable of observing the Earth with specialized and dedicated on-board sensors with the help of satellite constellations. The Space Science department at IST is a truly multidisciplinary department. As society looks towards the future, we continue the pursuit of further understanding the Earth system and beyond with our focus on, Remote Sensing and Geographical Information Science, Astronomy and Astrophysics, Physics, Astrodynamics, Atmospheric and Environmental Science, Meteorology and Earth Sciences. The department also conducts public awareness programs like Sky-watch/ Star-gazing shows and World Space Week (UN) for scientific outreach.
The job placements in space related areas have the strong characteristic of diversity and multidisciplinary and contribute to all socioeconomic activities of the country. The employment prospects for graduates having BS in Space Science with major in any discipline are good. The graduates should be able to get jobs depending upon the specialization they done in the following organizations are shown in the table. The background that students gain in analytical work and computing in all specializations of Space Science gives them desirable skills in many other scientific, computing, data processing and business areas.
Associate Professor / Head of Department PhD TSINGHUA University, ChinaArea of Specialization: Climate Variability and Change; Extreme Events; South Asian Summer Monsoon Dynamics; Regional Climate Modeling; Hydrological Modeling; Climate Change Impact Assessment on Water ResourcesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Professor Ph.D. University of Ulsan, South KoreaArea of Specialization: Piezoelectric materials, synthesis, characterization and their applicationsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Associate Professor PhD Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing ChinaArea of Specialization: Agriculture Remote Sensing, ForestryHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Associate Professor / Chairman National Centre of GIS and Space Applications PhD (Aerospace Engineering)Northwestern Polytechnical University (NPU) ChinaArea of Specialization: Spacecraft Dynamics and Controls, Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Associate Professor PhD Tsinghua University, Beijing, ChinaArea of Specialization: Energy Materials, Functional Materials, Physics of Materials, Advanced Characterization TechniquesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Associate Professor Postdoc University of St Andrews, UKPhD Vienna University of Technology, AustriaMS Erasmus Mundus Space Master, University of Würzburg, Germany and University of Würzburg, SwedenArea of Specialization: Photogrammetry, Computer Vision, Remote Sensing, Machine Learning, CubesatsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Associate Professor Postdoc University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB), USAPhD University of Twente, NetherlandsArea of Specialization: (Remote Sensing of Vegetation) Remote sensing/GIS, Multispectral and Hyperspectral Remote SensingHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology, PakistanArea of Specialization: (Theoretical and Nuclear Astrophysics) Nucleosynthesis problem (r-, s-, p- and rp-process), Evolution phases of stars and supernova explosions, Nuclear cross-section, Quantum many bodies interaction, Nuclear abundances, Numerical techniques used in nuclear physics, Theoretical plasma and optical properties of material Assistant Professor PhD GC University Lahore, PakistanArea of Specialization: Applications of Electromagnetic Waves in Space PlasmasHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD (Physics)Area of Specialization: Particle Astrophysics and CosmologyHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD in Geodesy and GNSSShanghai Astronomical Observatory, CAS, ChinaArea of Specialization: GNSS ionosphere modelling; GNSS-R; Earthquake Precursors in atmosphere and ionosphere; GNSS Space WeatherHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Assistant Professor PhD University of Montpellier, FranceArea of Specialization: Physics (Gamma-ray astronomy, High energy astronomy and astrophysics, Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes, Monte Carlo simulations, Gamma-ray bursts) Lecturer Master in Astronomy and Astrophysics, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, PakistanArea of Specialization: Plasma Physics Lecturer MSc Physics, Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, OmanBS Astronomy and Astrophysics, Harvard University, USAArea of Specialization: Gravitational Waves, X-ray Binaries Lecturer MS Physics, Astrophysics, University of Innsbruck, AustriaUniversity of Goettingen, GermanyArea of Specialization: Astronomy and cosmology Snr. Research Associate BSc (Physics) Govt. Islamia College Civil Lines, Lahore MSc (Physics) University of Punjab LahoreArea of Specialization: - Lab Engineer MS - Global Navigation Satellite Systems, Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Global Navigation Satellite Systems, Physics Lab Associate MPhil Physics, Quaid-I-Azam University, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Particle Physics, Radiation Physics Lab Associate MS Astronomy & Astrophysics MSc Computational PhysicsArea of Specialization: Quantum plasmas, Astrophysics, Gravitational Waves Lab Engineer/ MS Academic Coordinator MS Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization: Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Science, Computer Engineering Coordinator NCGSA & GNSS Program MS Aerospace, ISTArea of Specialization: Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Research Associate BSc (Physics)University of Gujrat M.Sc. (Physics) University of Punjab LahoreM. Phil (Physics)University of Punjab LahoreArea of Specialization: Industrial Safety
Astronomy is the oldest branch of natural science that deals with heavenly objects. Night sky observations of prehistoric cultures helped them to learn about seasons, phases of moon, eclipses and celestial navigation. Galileo Galilei first pointed telescope towards the heavens and realized that heavenly body are not unchanging spherical objects, rather evolving entities with variety of shapes and sizes. By applying laws of physics, astrophysicists try to understand the origin, structure, and evolution of planets, stars, galaxies, and the universe. Fuelled by technological developments, the field of astronomy and astrophysics is currently gaining importance worldwide. A new generation of spaceborne telescopes such as Hubble Space Telescope, Chandra X-ray observatory and the Spitzer Infrared Space Telescope together with advanced ground-based telescopes and enormous increases in computing power are enabling a golden age of astrophysics. Important discoveries have been made within our own solar system through explorations of robotic spacecraft and landers. Precise observations of centres of galaxies including our own Milky Way Galaxy revealed that most galaxies, if not all, harbour central supermassive black hole responsible for extremely energetic and exotic phenomena associated with quasars and radio galaxies. We also discovered that universe is expanding with ever increasing rate suggesting that we are living in an epoch of dark energy dominated universe. With CMB data from WMAP and PLANCK, we understand a great deal about large scale structure formation. The MS program in Astronomy and Astrophysics focuses on underlying physics of phenomena beyond the Earth, theory, data analysis and modeling techniques, which will undoubtedly play a prominent role in international basic research. The key areas of focus include Gravitational Physics, Galaxy Evolution, Dynamics and Evolution of Supermassive Black Holes in Galaxy Centres, Modeling of Galaxy Mergers, Gravitational Waves Data Analysis, Solar Plasma Physics The main objectives of the program are initiation in scientific research and training in Astronomy and Astrophysics. PEO 1: Develop and strengthen the subject of Astronomy & Astrophysics in the country. PEO 2: Meet the needs of national/international academia and research organizations.PEO 3: Contribute to research in the field of Astronomy & Astrophysics at national and international level. PLO-1:Attain thorough scientific knowledge in the field of Astronomy & Astrophysics. PLO-2:Be able to use their analytical, numerical and observational techniques in academia and research organizations. PLO-3:Be able to do research in the field of Astronomy & Astrophysics. A student should choose an elective course from the list after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty.
The advent of atmospheric sciences dates as far back as Aristotle who in his classical treatise, Meteorological laid some of the foundations of this expanding field. With the advent of ground instruments, computers and more recently observations from space, a new and exciting era of atmospheric and environmental sciences is unfolding. In the local context, Pakistan is heavily challenged due to extreme weather events and climate change including major massive flooding in the past four years. A major focus of the MS program is towards developing better understanding of these major issues and working towards providing solutions that are sustainable. The group at IST is focused on both physics and chemistry aspects of these issues and approaches complex environmental problems in a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary manner. Further, both local and international collaborations are involved, which includes joint partnerships with Pakistan Meteorological Department and Environment Canada. The MS program in Atmospheric and Environmental Science thus focuses on underlying physics and chemistry of processes related to Earth which involve direct observation, data analysis and modeling approaches. Key focus areas include Atmospheric Physics and Chemistry, Cloud and Aerosol dynamics, Satellite and Ground Meteorology, Hydrology and Climate Change. Students in the MS program are trained at local and international standards for scientific scholarship and research. This is expected to open many arenas of professional opportunities towards meaningful contributions to their scientific learning. PEO-1: Collaborate with Engineers and scientists from industry and academia as research/projects. PEO-2: Promote the culture of interdisciplinary novel research and produce fundamental & applied quality research in Pakistan PEO-3: Build environment and climate-oriented knowledge in the emerging areas of science and engineering, like, earth system dynamics, climate modeling, climatology, atmospheric modeling, air quality modeling and water resource management etc. PLO-1: Knowledge & Understanding The students will have background knowledge and basic understanding of environmental sciences, Hydrology fundamentals, Climate data formats, Climate ad Hydrological model structures and analysis with their applications. They will also have fundamental concepts and understanding of principle and theory of climate sciences, big data handling and hydrological cycle. PLO-2: Problem Analysis and Possible Solution They will exhibit knowledge of acquired material and research. They will conceive, plan and execute an existing science problem in a systematic way. They would use information to innovate and implement alternate possible solutions and their applications. They will also evaluate the designs, processes and bring improvements. They will integrate and evaluate information, data and knowledge from a variety of sources. They would also take holistic approach in environmental systems analysis, model building and applying professional judgments to balance risks and quality. PLO-3: Problem Investigation and Data Handling They will plan and execute a series of data handling experiments and demonstrations safely. They will use software to generate data, to analyze model results and to draw correct inferences. They will prepare technical reports, proposals, business cases and presentations. They will have skills to search and use relevant scientific literature effectively. They will take notes effectively, use computational tools and packages. PLO-4: Interpersonal and Professional skillsThe students will communicate effectively in writing and via presentations. They will apply hydrological, climatological and numerical modelling skills to transfer techniques and solutions from one field of science to another. They will manage resources and time efficiently and effectively. They will learn independently and work in multidisciplinary environment also with familiar and unfamiliar situations with open-mindedness and in the spirit of critical enquiry. They will do effective research in their respective fields individually or part of various teams with an understanding of the impact of Environment and climate sciences in societal contexts and knowledge of the need for sustainable development. A student should choose an elective course from the list after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty.
Institute of Space Technology, being the pioneer institute in space science, technology and applications reckoned the need of research and qualified human resource in the field of precise positioning, navigation and timing (PNT) and started a specialized Master of Science program in Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) in spring 2014. The program is structured according to the GNSS curriculum proposed and designed by the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) and the only program of its kind in Pakistan and the 4th across the globe after Italy, China and France. The MS GNSS course work covers eight subjects (24 credit hours) covering specific areas of GNSS (theory, technology and applications) followed by a six credit hours research thesis. Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) include constellations of Earth orbiting satellites in Medium Earth Orbits (MEO), networks of ground control and monitoring stations, and of receivers that calculate ground positions by the basic principle of trilateration. At present GNSS include two fully operational global navigation systems, the Global Positioning System (GPS) by US and the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System (GLONASS) by Russia. China has recently completed the launch of Beidou system while GALILEO by Europe is in the final phase of completion. In addition to global navigation systems, India has its own Regional Navigation Satellite System named as IRNSS / NavIC and Japan has the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS). Once all these global and regional systems become fully operational, the user will have access to positioning, navigation and timing signals from more than 100 satellites. In addition to global and regional navigation satellite systems, there are also space based augmentation systems namely the Wide-area Augmentation System (WAAS) by US, the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), the Russian System of Differential Correction and Monitoring (SDCM), the Indian GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) and Japanese Multi-functional Transport Satellite (MTSAT) Satellite-based Augmentation Systems (MSAS). GNSS applications offer a cost-effective way of pursuing sustainable growth and provide solution to nearly all the SDGs. The applications and market of GNSS is enormous and employed in all sectors namely space/air/land/marine transportation and management, construction and survey, mining , health, fishing, agriculture, livestock management, space weather monitoring, telecommunications , electric power management, help and rescue, law enforcement, disaster and emergency response, finance and more. Keeping in view the wide application of GNSS, the specific objectives of the graduate program in GNSS are the demonstration and understanding of GNSS constellations, signals, errors, augmentation, sensors integration, receivers and practical applications development. As we move forward in the 21st century, governments and business in developing and industrialized countries are exploring potential growth areas for their national economies. Almost without exception, the most promising option seems to be the outer space, and in particular the satellite positioning, navigation and timing (PNT). A student should choose 1 course from each of the 2 Optional Groups (I and II) after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Group – I: Integration and Design of Satellite Navigation Systems Group – II: Satellite Navigation System Applications Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty. PEO-1: GNSS Professionals with a strong practical and theoretical exposure who are able to contribute to society through innovation, enterprise and leadership PEO-2: GNSS Graduates with critical thinking and global outlook to provide technological solutions through necessary technological tools PEO-3: GNSS Professionals with ethical values, communication and interpersonal skills to work in interdisciplinary teams and capable to adopt to changing environments of science, engineering, technology and society PLO-1: Knowledge & Understanding The students will have knowledge and understanding of advanced mathematics, GNSS fundamentals, GNSS data formats, signal structures and positioning algorithms with their applications. They will also have fundamental concepts and understanding of principle and theory of Navigation, Positioning and GNSS. They will be well aware of engineering solutions, emerging technologies and GNSS constellations & augmentation and the ability to resolve practical engineering problems and providing GNSS solutions. PLO-2: Problem Analysis and Solution Design They will exhibit knowledge of acquired material and research. They will conceive, plan and execute an engineering and science problems in a systematic way. They would use information to innovate and implement alternate solutions and applications. They will also evaluate the designs, processes and products and make improvements. They will integrate and evaluate information, data and knowledge from a variety of sources. They would also take holistic approach in designing systems, applying professional judgments to balance risks, costs, scope and quality. PLO-3: Problem Investigation and Experimentation They will plan and execute a series of experiments and demonstrations safely. They will use software and hardware to generate data, to analyze experimental results and to draw correct inferences. They will prepare technical reports, proposals, business cases and presentations. They will have skills to search and use relevant scientific literature effectively. They will take notes effectively, use computational tools and packages. PLO-4: Interpersonal and Professional Capability The students will communicate effectively in writing and verbally. They will apply mathematical skills to transfer techniques and solutions from one field of engineering / science to another. They will manage resources and time efficiently and effectively. They will learn independently in familiar and unfamiliar situations with open-mindedness and in the spirit of critical enquiry. They will do effective research in their respective fields individually or part of various teams with an understanding of the impact of GNSS in societal and environmental contexts and knowledge of the need for sustainable development. Dr. Najam Abbas Naqvi (Program Head) Email: Najam.naqvi@ist.edu.pk | Phone: +92(0)-51-907-5578 | +92(0)-321-5041155 GNSS Lab (Lab – 311), Naqvi Block Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad Highway, Islamabad, Pakistan.
Physics investigates the laws of nature and is indispensable not only for our understanding of the world but also for the solution of the technological and ecological problems. As a fundamental science, physics continues to be the driving intellectual force in expanding our understanding of the universe, in discovering the scientific basis for new technologies, and in applying these technologies to research. The Institute of Space Technology has launched a new program for MS in Physics, starting from Fall 2020. The MS program in Physics is designed to develop graduates through quality education and research in physics. Through this program students shall acquire a solid theoretical foundation as well as strong analytic, quantitative, experimental and problem-solving skills that shall enable them to perform research and tackle challenges at the cutting edge of scientific and technological horizon. The Department of Space Science and Physics at IST has distinguished faculty to its credit, who engage in both quality teaching and research. The department's resources not only include the well-trained faculty, but also high-quality labs that provide excellent research opportunities for the students. Active research groups are studying the physics of elementary particles; theoretical and experimental investigations of plasmas ranging from ionosphere to controlled nuclear fusion; electric and magnetic properties of materials; semiconductor physics; astrophysical modeling of supermassive black hole pairs as sources of gravitational waves; observations of stars; study of gamma ray bursts. The students shall be introduced to the research world by working in the diverse fields under the supervision of capable and well-equipped faculty of the department, where emphasis is placed on teaching and research and preparing the students to become the next great physicists of tomorrow and the future to come PEO-1: Advanced knowledge and scientific skills in various domains of physics. PEO-2: Creative and critical thinking to provide solutions to physical problems while working in scientific organizations, academia and research groups. PEO-3: Effective communication and interpersonal skills in their educational and professional careers with an understanding of social and ethical responsibilities. PLO-1: Deep understanding of core physics disciplines. PLO-2: Advanced analytical, computational and experimental skills to effectively solve complex physics problems. PLO-3: Effective communication and scientific writing skills to present scientific work in seminars, journals and conferences. A student should choose an elective course from the list after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Module – I (Astronomy & Astrophysics) Module-II (Plasma Physics) Module-III (Material Physics) Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty.
In order to bring Pakistan at par with developed nations, education and research in emerging fields of science and technologies is of fundamental importance. Geospatial science and technologies including GISc, RS and associated disciplines have emerged as “enabling discipline” having applications in almost every domain. Institute of Space Technology (IST) started MS in RS & GISc in 2010 at National Centre for Remote Sensing and Geoinformatics at Karachi. In view of the growing importance of the discipline and scarcity of universities offering degree programs nationally, IST has taken yet another step forward and started MS in RS & GISc at Space Science (SS) Department at IST Islamabad Campus since 2013. The SS department gathers best foreign qualified faculty and ensures to create top quality RS & GISc human resource. For more information visit: PEO 1: Develop and utilize RS & GISc related scientific knowledge amenable towards solving local issues in Pakistan and abroad. PEO 2: Meet the needs of industry and academia in Pakistan and abroad. PEO 3: Contribute to, and lead RS & GISc Geospatial Information Sciences based research groups. PLO-1:Able to develop and implement systematic frameworks towards practical problems and research questions. PLO-2:Able to comprehend a problem related to RS & GISc and to access accuracy of results. PLO-3:Able to be an effective member of multi-disciplinary teams. A student should choose an elective course from the list after the approval of program head, research supervisor and HoD. Note: Elective courses will be offered subject to the availability of relevant faculty.
The following state-of-the-art laboratories are available for research and experimentation.
Space is the final frontier and space science is becoming exceedingly important with each passing day, while Physics is one of the most important fundamental science that has applications in all spheres of science and technology. Our BS Space Science program has specializations in Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Science, Astronomy and Astrophysics, and Environmental Science; all of which have market demand and plenty of opportunities for higher studies. Our BS Physics program caters for areas that have demand and applications in computational physics, material physics, quantum physics, plasma physics, high energy physics, electronics, optics, astronomy and astrophysics. Our graduate programs include MS and PhD in Astronomy and Astrophysics as well as MS in Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Science (RS GISc). The department has highly qualified faculty with significant international collaborations and well-equipped facilities that bring strength to our BS, MS and PhD programs. Dr. Mujtaba Hassan Head of Department Space Science
Space Science Department aims to provide world class education and nurture research expertise at undergraduate and graduate levels. The focus is on developing creative, competent and committed professionals in the core areas and in fundamental sciences linked to Space Science arena; capable of cooperating and collaborating within space practitioners as well as in allied sciences and applications.
As the oldest of the natural sciences, astronomy and astrophysics is deeply intertwined with the evolution of human thinking, the development of new technologies as well as the understanding of natural phenomena. From the use of celestial bodies and stars for finding directions, to the understanding of the model of the Solar system, to the beginning of the space era and study of the nature of the Universe in the 20th century, astronomy and astrophysics has had a deep influence on human society. Currently, the field of Astronomy and Astrophysics is one of the most rapidly growing domains of study. This growth is made possible through the complimentary approaches of observation, computation/simulation and theory. Observational data are gathered through high performance telescopes in all domains of the electromagnetic spectrum as well as gravitational waves, neutrinos and charged particles. High performance computational systems allow the simulations of complex systems such as the collision of galaxies and the analysis of large amounts of data. All of this results in the refinement and development of better theoretical models of various objects and phenomena, ranging from the solar system, to stars and plasmas in the Milky Way, to the study of complex objects such as neutron stars, supernova explosions, galaxies and their supermassive black holes, and large scale structures in the Universe. IST’s Astronomy and Astrophysics PhD program aims to train future researchers through quality education in astronomy and astrophysics. The courses are geared towards fostering the investigative capacity, creative thinking and intellectual curiosity of students. While the research projects hone out the multiple skills required by students in order to finish a successful PhD dissertation and carry out their own research endeavours in the future. Currently research is carried out in several domains of astronomy and astrophysics. The Astronomy and Astrophysics group at IST has highly qualified faculty with significant international collaborations and access to well-equipped facilities, abroad as well as in Pakistan. PEO 1: Establish active research groups of international standards in different areas of Astronomy & Astrophysics. PEO 2: Establish international collaborations in this field with high impact research. PEO 3: Develop, strengthen and excel in indigenous research. PEO 4: Meet the needs of academia and industry in Pakistan. PLO-1:Attain thorough and deep scientific knowledge in the field of Astronomy & Astrophysics. PLO-2:Be able to use analytical, numerical and observational techniques in academia and research organizations. PLO-3:Be able to do research in the field of Astronomy & Astrophysics.
Physics investigates the laws of nature and is indispensable not only for our understanding of the world but also for the solution of the technological and ecological problems. As a fundamental science, physics continues to be the driving intellectual force in expanding our understanding of the universe, in discovering the scientific basis for new technologies, and in applying these technologies to research. The Institute of Space Technology has launched a new program for BS in Physics, starting from Fall 2020. The BS program in Physics is designed to enlighten students with knowledge from all the vast areas of Physics, including Classical Mechanics, Electrodynamics, Statistical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics, Particle Physics, Plasma Physics, Condensed Matter Physics, Special and General Relativity etc. Alongside a sound basic education in Physics and Mathematics, BS students would be able to choose attractive, career-oriented study blocks, notably from the fields of Computational Physics, Materials Physics, Environmental Physics, Plasma Physics, High Energy Physics, Electronics and Astronomy & Astrophysics, which is a unique specialization of its kind in Pakistan. The Department of Space Science and Physics at IST has distinguished faculty to its credit, who engage in both quality teaching and research. The department's resources not only include the well-trained faculty, but also high-quality labs that provide excellent research opportunities for the students. Active research groups are studying the physics of elementary particles; theoretical and experimental investigations of plasmas ranging from ionosphere to controlled nuclear fusion; electric and magnetic properties of materials; semiconductor physics; astrophysical modeling of supermassive black hole pairs as sources of gravitational waves; observations of stars; study of gamma ray bursts. The students shall be introduced to the research world by working in the diverse fields under the supervision of capable and well-equipped faculty of the department, where emphasis is placed on teaching and research and preparing the students to become the next great physicists of tomorrow and the future to come. PEO-1: Demonstrate knowledge of Physics on the fundamental, conceptual and application level. PEO-2: Ability to comprehend, analyze and address scientific problems in Physics’ domains. PEO-3: Capacity to work in national or international teams in Physics and ancillary domains, with full professional and ethical responsibilities, and ability to communicate in an effective manner. PLO-1: Scientific Knowledge Knowledge of the domains of Physics and ability to apply this knowledge to analyze a variety of scientific problems. PLO-2: Mathematical Skills and Knowledge Skills in mathematics and comprehension of mathematical concepts needed in Physics. PLO-3: Modern Tool Usage Ability to use modern tools, techniques and skills to analyze and solve problems in Physics. PLO-4: Problem Analysis Ability to identify, formulate, research literature, and investigate scientific problems. PLO-5: Investigation Ability to acquire, analyze and interpret data as well as synthesize information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-6: Environment, Sustainability and Society Understanding of the impact of Physics in societal and environmental context and knowledge of the needs for sustainable development. PLO-7: Ethics Understanding of ethical principles and an ability to apply them along with a commitment to professional ethics and responsibilities. PLO-8: Individual and Teamwork Ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, in multifaceted and/or multi-disciplinary settings. PLO-9: Communication Ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing with the scientific community and with the society at large. PLO-10: Project Management Management and leadership skills, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-11: Lifelong LearningAbility to recognize importance of life-long learning in the broader context of innovation and scientific developments.
Our BS Space Science program has specializations in Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Science, Astronomy & Astrophysics, and Environmental Science; all of which have market demand and plenty of opportunities for higher studies. Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Science: Remote Sensing (RS) is the science and technology of satellite imaging of the Earth’s atmosphere, surface, and oceans, and Geographic Information Science (GISc) refers to the science and technology of geographic data manipulation, analysis, and visualization. Together, the fields of RS & GISc and their associated disciplines have now emerged as "enabling disciplines" in almost every domain. The RS & GISc stream at IST focusses on studying the earth processes and dynamics (e.g. forests, oceans, urban areas, rivers) using optical, radar, and hyperspectral satellite / drone imagery, photogrammetry and terrain estimation, disaster management and mitigation, GIS IT tools expertise and customization, spatial data structures and databases, spatial data visualization, and mobile and webGIS. Astronomy and Astrophysics is one of the most rapidly expanding fields in the world. Exciting new projects are being developed worldwide to further understand the Universe. IST’s Astronomy and Astrophysics program provides a unique opportunity for Pakistani students to expand their horizon by learning and developing a career in this field. In the Astronomy and Astrophysics specialization of the BS Space Science program, students are given the necessary physics and mathematics skills they need as well as more advanced concepts and specialized courses providing essential computational tools for a rewarding career in the domain. Environmental science is an interdisciplinary academic field that integrates physical, biological and information sciences (including physics, chemistry, oceanography, physical geography, and atmospheric science) to study environment and to find the possible solution of environmental problems. Environmental studies incorporate more of the social sciences for understanding human relationships, perceptions and policies towards the environment.The environmental science stream at IST focuses on Atmospheric Dynamics, Climate Change, hydrological modelling, SMOG, urban air pollution and meteorological process that are occurring at local and regional scale. PEO-1: Understanding of the various domains of space science on the fundamental, conceptual and application level. PEO-2: Ability to comprehend, analyze and address scientific problems in space science domains. PEO-3: Capacity to work in national or international teams in space science and related domains, with full professional and ethical responsibilities, and ability to communicate in an effective manner. PLO-1: Scientific Knowledge Knowledge of the domains of space science and the ability to apply this knowledge to analyze variety of scientific problems. PLO-2: Mathematical Skills and Knowledge Skills in mathematics and comprehension of mathematical concepts needed in space science domains. PLO-3: Modern Tool Usage Ability to use modern tools, techniques and skills to analyze and solve problems in the space science domains. PLO-4: Problem Analysis Ability to identify, formulate, research literature, and investigate scientific problems. PLO-5: Investigation Ability to acquire, analyze and interpret data as well as synthesize information to derive valid conclusions. PLO-6: Environment, Sustainability and Society Understanding of the impact of space science in societal and environmental contexts and knowledge of the needs for sustainable development. PLO-7: Ethics Understanding of ethical principles and an ability to apply them along with a commitment to professional ethics and responsibilities. PLO-8: Individual and Teamwork Ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, in multifaceted and/or multi-disciplinary settings. PLO-9: Communication Ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing with the scientific community and with the society at large. PLO-10: Project Management Management and leadership skills, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. PLO-11: Lifelong Learning Ability to recognize importance of life-long learning in the broader context of innovation and scientific developments.
APSCO SSS-2A project was done jointly by IST and Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China. The engineering model of the 3U satellite was jointly developed by the two universities. The satellite has successfully been launched in Oct, 2021.
After successful launch of ICUBE-1 in November 2013, IST has successfully developed engineering model of 3U CubeSat named ICUBE-2. Step Forward and Become Part of Space Endeavors with Institute of Space Technology Pakistan’s first Cubesat satellite, iCUBE-1, was launched on November 21, 2013, onboard Dnepr launch vehicle from Yasny launch base, Russia. IST has etched its name among the foremost universities in the World and the only University in Pakistan who have built and launched a Cubesat satellite.
SSL Lab has won funding for development of specific Satellite Technology & Research Lab (SSTRL) under the HEC’s National Center of GIS and Space Applications (NCGSA). Under this lab, the major project undertaken is a 3-U National CubeSat (ICUBE-N). All the major modules of the satellite will be developed in-house with the collaboration of other universities of Pakistan. It is a 3 year project that started in 2021.
Professor PhD University of Michigan Ann Arbor, USAArea of Specialization:Flight Dynamics & Control
Snr. Research Associate BSc (Mechatronics Engineering)University of Engg & Tech Taxila (Chakwal Campus)Area of Specialization:Advance Manufacturing
Research Associate BS (Aerospace Engineering)Institute of Space Technology IslamabadArea of Specialization:Design & Analysis
Lab Engineer BS (Aerospace Engineering), Institute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Computer Vision & Aerodynamics
Adjunct Faculty PhD (Electronics Engineering)University of Surrey, UKArea of Specialization:Satellite Systems
Research Associate BE (Mechanical Engineering)Balochistan University of Engg Tech KhudzarArea of Specialization:Manufacturing Engineering
Lecturer MS Mechanical EngineeringInstitute of Space Technology, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Mechanical Design and Analysis
Assistant Professor MS (Usuludin) Islamic Studies IIUI, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Aqeedah & Philosophy92.51.9075552ubaidullah.jamil@ist.edu.pk
Professor PhD (Materials) University of Connecticut, USAArea of Specialization:Phase Transformation & Alloy DevelopmentHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075574wilayat.hussain@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD Foundation University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Applied Linguistics and Literature92.51.9075455aysha.bokhari@ist.edu.pk
Consultant MSc (Applied Psychology) Punjab University, LahoreArea of Specialization:Guidance & Counselling/ Selection and Placement
Assistant Professor PhD Koc University, TurkeyArea of Specialization:Computational Fluid Dynamics and Biomedical92.51.9075758talha.irfan@ist.edu.pk Dr. Talha Irfan Khan, presently working as Assistant Professor in Mechanical Engineering Department IST. He has over 10 years of diversified experience of working in various public and private sector organizations. Being a part of industry, he has vast experience of dealing with technical people and to overcome the challenges faced by all management levels in public and private sector organization.
Lecturer MS English Linguistics Foundation University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Argumentation Theory and Critical Discourse Analysis
Lecturer MS Data Science FAST-NUCES ISLAMABADArea of Specialization:Natural Language processing & Medical Image processing
Lecturer M.Phil. English Literature Fatima Jinnah Women University, RawalpindiArea of Specialization:English Literature
Lecturer MS (Computer Science) NUST, PakistanArea of Specialization:Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision
Assistant Professor PhD (Numerical Analysis) University of Science Malaysia (USM), MalaysiaArea of Specialization:Fractional PDEs, Variable-order fractional PDEs, Theoretical AnalysisHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor
Research Associate BSc (Physics)University of Gujrat M.Sc. (Physics) University of Punjab LahoreM. Phil (Physics)University of Punjab LahoreArea of Specialization:Industrial Safety
Assistant Professor Phd Aerospace Engineering (Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Turbomachinery Machine Learning Artificial Neural Networks) Institute of Space Technology MS Mechanical Engineering (Power) Mirpur University of Science and Technology MBA (Executive) COL Allama Iqbal Open UniversityArea of Specialization:Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Turbomachinery Machine Learning Artificial Neural Networks
Coordinator NCGSA & GNSS Program MS Aerospace, ISTArea of Specialization:Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)usama.ahmed@mail.ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor PhD University of Engineering and Technology, TaxilaArea of Specialization:Engineering ManagementHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor Dr. Usama Waleed Qazi, presently working as Assistant Professor in Mechanical Engineering Department, IST. Apart from this, he has vast experience of providing trainings to the HR of Public and private sector organization. Based on his diverse academic background, he has established his expertise in soft skills and project management. In recent years, he has conducted successful training sessions with junior and senior management of strategic organization. Certified Energy Auditor Energy Optimization, Energy Policy, Renewable and Sustainable Energy
Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering)NUST-SEECS, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Control Systems and Power Electronicsusmanali.afzal@ist.edu.pk
Assistant Professor Ph.D Pusan National University, Republic of KoreaArea of Specialization:Signal Processing and Controls, Robotics, Brain Imaging92.51.9075521usman.ghafoor@ist.edu.pk Dr. Usman Ghafoor accomplished his bachelor’s degree from Air University, Islamabad, Pakistan, in the year 2007. He completed a master’s degree in industrial engineering from the University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, Pakistan as a part-time student in 2016. Apart from academic activities in the Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad, Pakistan, he was involved in establishing various labs of mechanical engineering and served as an academic coordinator. He received his Ph.D. degree from the School of Mechanical Engineering, Pusan National University, South Korea, in August 2021. His research interests include control systems, neuromodulation using acupuncture and electrical stimulation, fNIRS-based brain imaging, and brain-computer interfaces. Presently, he is working as Assistant Professor and head dynamics & controls research group of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, IST, Islamabad.
Adjunct Faculty PhDAustralian National University, AustraliaArea of Specialization:Visual-Inertial SLAM, Convex optimization
Assistant Professor M.Phil (Linguistics & Literature) Air University, IslamabadArea of Specialization:Linguistics & Literature92.51.907558uzma.nasir@ist.edu.pk
Lecturer MS Physics, Astrophysics, University of Innsbruck, AustriaUniversity of Goettingen, GermanyArea of Specialization:Astronomy and cosmologyWaheed.ahmad@ist.edu.pk
Associate Professor PhD (Applied Mathematics)CIIT, Islamabad PakistanArea of Specialization:Computational MathematicsHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075523waqas.ashraf@ist.edu.pk
Wireless & Signal Processing Lab (WiSP) undertakes research projects related to wireless communication, signal and image processing and radio frequency (RF) systems design. The researchers explore theoretical as well as experimental aspects of wireless communication. Software-defined radios are used to experiment on the PHY and MAC layers of advanced radio technologies including Wi-Fi, LTE, LoRa etc. Machine learning is applied for PHY layer and MIMO processing. Some other research areas include Non-orthogonal waveform, full duplex massive MIMO, context/socially aware wireless networks, optimization in 5G communication, small cell and moving small cell network and D2D communication. Signal processing research deals with both 1D and 2D signals (images). This includes sparse signal processing, compressive sensing and application of machine learning to acoustic and medical signals, information retrieval and pattern recognition. The RF stream mainly deals with front-end and antenna design for high altitude platforms and other communication subsystems, such as communication satellites. It also deals with front-end, antenna design and other subsystems for High Altitude Platforms.
20 Jan 2021: Director WiSP Lab, Dr. Farrukh Aziz Bhatti recently gave interview to ProUrdu news portal and he discussed about some of the technology fields that are in high demand, the evolving job market due to diffusion of technology and the need for developing skillsets to cope with the changing market needs. He also discussed about the projects being done in WiSP and iVISION labs and the kind of scrutiny done when hiring engineers and researchers for the industry projects being done in these labs. 07 Oct 2020: Dr. Syed Ali Irtaza has recently returned back from South Korea after completing his PhD from Hanyang University. He delivered a talk in WiSP Lab and discussed his research work about Multi-User Detection Techniques for Grant-Free Access in 5G Massive Machine Type Communications. Massive machine type communications (MMTC) framework targets the wireless connectivity of the autonomous devices in the 5G network. There are many challenges that need to be addressed and much effort is required to completely harness the benefits of 5G MMTC as the behavior of the autonomous devices is quite different form the existing human-centric devices. Therefore, in his talk efficient techniques were introduced to enhance the MMTC communications. One of the proposed technique introduce was to use the pilot and data symbols, and the other techniques include the use of prior information and exploit the inherent structure among the devices’ activity pattern. Finally, computationally efficient algorithms were discussed for the detection of multiusers in 5G network. 30 Jan 2020: Dr. Zaineb Farooq discussed her recently completed PhD work on the topic - Precise localization using Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS). She discussed the concept of positioning using GNSS measurements. The prevalent schemes for precise positioning using GNSS measurements, namely Precise Point Positioning (PPP) and Real Time Kinematic (RTK) were introduced. This was followed by the problem of cycle slips in RTK and ways to mitigate it. Using single frequency GNSS receivers, it was seen that once cycle slips are detected and corresponding measurements taken care of, cm level positioning accuracy can be achieved. Finally, the applications of low cost single frequency receivers in precise positioning were presented. The talk was followed by an interactive discussion on other use cases including indoor localization etc. 06 Jan 2020: Dr. Adeel Razi gave a talk on Neuroscience-inspired Artificial Intelligence. Dr. Razi is an Australian Research Council DECRA Fellow at the Monash University and he is actively collaborating on many computational neuroscience projects with Dr. Sadia Shakil. He explained brain’s anatomy and described how the data gathered non-invasively from the brain is often caused by more than one phenomenon inside the brain. Consequently, the relationship between the brain data and its cause can be one-to-many and more than one mathematical model can fit the data. He then explained the way in which Dynamic Causal Modeling (DCM) is used to find the best models for data fitting. In the next part of his talk, described active inference that is an approach to understanding behavior that rests upon the idea that the brain uses an internal generative model to predict incoming sensory data. He concluded the talk by showcasing recent developments in in-vitro active inference leading towards a proof of principal showing that cultured neurons in a lab can be trained to play a game of pong. The talk was followed by interactive discussion and Q&A session. 02 Nov 2019: Dr. Majid Butt gave a seminar about UE Positioning in a Dense 5G Millimeter Wave Deployment using Supervised Deep Learning. He discussed about some of the key performance metrics of 5G, such as, ultra reliable low latency communication (URLLC) with reliability requirements of >99% and latency requirements of a few milliseconds. He compared conventional positioning indoor positioning schemes with Machine Learning-based positioning while explaining how well can machine learning in a 5G base station (gNB) predict UE positions using available 5G NR CSI report. He then concluded that a combination of serving and neighboring cell beam reports should be used with at least 2 beams coming from the serving cell and at least one from the neighboring cell. The initial results indicate that this approach can give a localization accuracy of a few meters in the indoor environments. The talk was followed by an interactive discussion and QA session. 29 Aug 2019: EE-14 students Ali Yaseen and Sultan Khan were awarded best final year project Gold Medal at the IST convocation on 29 Aug 2019. The project was titled “Design and formal verification of motion detection using LoRA (Low Range) WAN” and was supervised by Dr. Sobia Jangsher. The project successfully demonstrated indoor localization (without GPS) using LoRA access points. 30 Jan 2019: A team of researchers from Military College Signals (NUST) visits WiSP Lab for collaboration on Software Radio projects.
2021 H. F. Saeed and A. Zafar, "Widely linear equalization for IQ imbalance contaminated multicarrier systems", Physical Communication (2021): 101511. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phycom.2021.101511. A. Ayub, S. Jangsher, M. M. Butt, A. R. Maud, F. A. Bhatti, "A Comparative Analysis of Wi-Fi Offloading and Cooperation in Small Cell Network", Electronics 10, no. 12: 1493. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10121493. F. A. Bhatti, M. J. Khan, A. Selim and F. Paisana, "Shared Spectrum Monitoring using Deep Learning," IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and Networking, doi: 10.1109/TCCN.2021.3071149. M. Shahzaib, S. Shakil, S. Ghuffar, and F. A. Bhatti, "Classification of forearm EMG signals for 10 motions using optimum feature-channel combinations", Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering, Dec 2020, doi: 10.1080/10255842.2020.1861256. M. M. Saad, F. A. Bhatti, A. Zafar, S. Jangsher, D. Kim, M. Maqsood, "Air-interface virtualization using filter bank multicarrier and orthogonal frequency division multiplexing configurations", Transactions on Emerging Telecommunications Technologies (ETT), October 2020; e4154, https://doi.org/10.1002/ett.4154. H. F. Saeed, S. Jangsher, M. Aloqaily, H. K. Qureshi, J. B. Othman, "Joint pairing and resource allocation for backhaul of small cells using NOMA", Journal of Computational Science, Volume 45, 2020, 101197, ISSN 1877-7503, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2020.101197. M. Abdullahi, A. Cao, A. Zafar, P. Xiao, and I. Hemadeh, "A Generalized Bit Error Rate Evaluation forIndex Modulation Based OFDM System", IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 70082-70094, February 2020. M. Amjad, H. K. Qureshi, S. A. Hassan, A. Ahmad and S. Jangsher, "Optimization of MAC Frame Slots and Power in Hybrid VLC/RF Networks", IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 21653-21664, 2020, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2968624. H. F. Saeed, S. Jangsher, H. K. Qureshi, M. Aloqaily and J. B. Othman, "Backhaul Pairing of Small Cells Using Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access", 2019 IEEE Symposium on Computers and Communications (ISCC), Barcelona, Spain, 2019, pp. 993-997, doi: 10.1109/ISCC47284.2019.8969717. 2019 S. Zafar, S. Jangsher, O. Bouachir, M. Aloqaily, J. B. Othman, "QoS enhancement with deep learning-based interference prediction in mobile IoT", Computer Communications, Volume 148, 2019, Pages 86-97, ISSN 0140-3664, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2019.09.010. B. S. Khan, S. Jangsher, H. K. Qureshi, S. H. Ahmed, "Predicted mobility based profitable relay selection in cooperative cellular network with mobile relays", Physical Communication, Volume 37, 2019, 100808,ISSN 1874-4907, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phycom.2019.100808.
Assistant Professor PhD, ENSTA Bretagne FranceArea of Specialization:Mechanics of solids, materials, structures and surfacesHEC Approved Ph.D Supervisor92.51.9075518yumna.qureshi@ist.edu.pk Dr. Yumna Qureshi is a dedicated researcher and Assistant Professor specializing in the field of Mechanics of Solid, Materials, Structures and Surfaces with a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering. Her research interests span smart/functional materials, nanocomposites, and additive manufacturing, resulting in high-impact factor publications and international conference presentations. She excels in teaching Engineering Mechanics, Mechanics of Materials and Mechanics of Machines, fostering critical thinking and skill development. Driven by the desire to bridge academia and society, she actively engages in interdisciplinary collaborations and mentors aspiring scholars.
Lecturer MPhil (Statistics)QAU, IslamabadArea of Specialization:StatisticsEx-Pakistan Leave92.51.9075447zaheer.ahmed@ist.edu.pk
Research Associate - Adjunct Faculty BS (Electrical Power Engineering) COMSATS University Islamabad (Abbottabad Campus)Area of Specialization:Power Engineering
Teaching/Research Associate BS (Materials Science & Engineering) Institute of Space TechnologyArea of Specialization:Materials Engineering
Lecturer MS (Electrical Engineering) NUST, PakistanArea of Specialization:Electronics and Control Systems
Subscribe to JamaPunji's e-Newsletter and receive periodic updates. "Financial sense is knowing that certain men will promise to do certain things, and fail." Jamapunji - An initiative of Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. NIC Building, Jinnah Avenue, Islamabad. 44000, Pakistan. 0800 88008 DISCLAIMER: Please be informed that “Jamapunji” is an investor education initiative of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. We do not sell or recommend any investment product. Jamapunji main purpose is to educate and aware public enabling them to avoid scams and frauds in financial market. Page Views 6689115
Engr. Masood Khalid Director Incharge KICSIT Its my pleasure to welcome you at Dr. A. Q Khan Institute of Computer Sciences and Information Technology (KICSIT), Kahuta, a campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad. It has the privilege that it was inaugurated in November 2000 by Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan himself, the founder and then Chairman of KRL. KICSIT aims to offer quality education at an affordable cost. Currently, it is offering two four-year degree programs as Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCE) and Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS). BSCE is accredited by PEC (Pakistan Engineering Council) and BSCS is accredited by NCEAC (National Computing Education Accreditation Council) The BSCS program is spread over four academic years. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. The MSCS Degree program is spread over two academic years(minumum). The minimum duration for completion of Master of Science in Computer Science degree is two (02) years. The BSCE program is spread over four academic years. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. Final Result BSCS-1 Final Result BSCS-1 15-Feb-2024 Final Result BSCS-2 Final Result BSCS-2 15-Feb-2024 Final Result BSCS-3 Final Result BSCS-3 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-4 Final Result- BSCS-4 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-5 Final Result- BSCS-5 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-6 Final Result- BSCS-6 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-7 Final Result- BSCS-7 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-7 Final Result- BSCE-7 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-5 Final Result- BSCE-5 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-3 Final Result- BSCE-3 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-1 Final Result- BSCE-1 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-1 Final Result- MSCS-1 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-2 Final Result- MSCS-2 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-3 Final Result- MSCS-3 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-4 Final Result- MSCS-4 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-8 Final Result- BSCS-8 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-Post 8 Final Result- BSCS-Post 8 15-Feb-2024
The functional domain of Q.E.C is a sort of self assessment process. Assessment is a systematic process of gathering, reviewing and using important quantitative data and information from multiple and diverse sources about educational programs, for the purpose of improving student learning, and evaluating whether academic and learning standards are being met. Q.E.C is established under the umbrella of Quality Assurance Agency (Q.A.A) of H.E.C Islamabad to enhance, maintain and monitor the quality of higher education. The Q.A.A has been established at HEC Islamabad with the intention of significant enhancement of quality in higher learning and international capability. The major function of Q.A.A is to integrate the concepts of quality in the higher learning systems and to develop practical guidelines and policies for uplifting the standard of education in Pakistan by establishing a viable Quality Assurance mechanism. Such like, one of the basic components of Quality Assurance Process is Self Assessment System for the university programs in the form of Quality Enhancement Cell (Q.E.C) at universities at Pakistan. In KICSIT Kahuta, Q.E.C has been established in March, 2014 under the supervision of Q.E.C UET, Taxila established on February 07, 2011. Being Campus of IST, KICSIT is following IST QEC (An ISO 9001:2015 Certified Institute) with effect from Fall 2019.
The admissions for BSCS are held twice a year in Spring and Fall Semesters. The admissions for BSCE are held once a year in Fall Semester. The admissions for MSCS are held twice a year in Spring and Fall Semesters. You can pay fee in any branch of Askari Commercial Bank or by easypaisa with following details. KICSIT Account No 01761650500136 Account Title: KICSIT -KRL Kahuta Application Processing Fee Rs.2000/-
KICSIT has been declared as Campus of Institute of Space & Technology, Islamabad with effect from Fall-2019. From Fall 2019, admissions have been made through IST, Islamabad. KICSIT is currently offering two programs as following. BSCE (Bachelors of Sciences in Computer Engineering), 04 years degree program. BSCE is accredited with PEC Pakistan Engineering Council. BSCS (Bachelors of Sciences in Computer Science), 04 years degree program previously and approved by National Computing Education Accreditations Council (NCEAC Dr. A. Q. Khan Institute of Computer Sciences and Information Technology (KICSIT), Kahuta was approved and inaugurated in November 2000 by none other than Dr. A. Q. Khan himself, the founder and then chairman of KRL. Initially, KICSIT offered Bachelor of Computer Science (BSCS) program in affiliation with Gomal University, D I Khan. Later in 2001, 4-year Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology (BEIT) program was started in affiliation with University of Engineering and Technology (UET), Taxila. For the purpose of accreditation since Spring 2013 BEIT program was converted into BSIT (Bachelor of Science in Information Technology). As per the direction of HEC to UET Taxila, BSIT program being not offered in UET Taxila itself, hence it was converted into BSCS (Bachelors of Sciences in Computer Science). The Previous batches of BSCS and BSCE will remain on the rolls of UET Taxila as per the agreement.
Dr. A. Q. Khan Institute of Computer Sciences & Information Technology, Sumbal Gah Kahuta, Distt. Rawalpindi, Pakistan. If you have a question, comment or concern regarding KICSIT, we would like to hear from you.
Engr. Masood Khalid Director Incharge KICSIT Its my pleasure to welcome you at Dr. A. Q Khan Institute of Computer Sciences and Information Technology (KICSIT), Kahuta, a campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad. It has the privilege that it was inaugurated in November 2000 by Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan himself, the founder and then Chairman of KRL. KICSIT aims to offer quality education at an affordable cost. Currently, it is offering two four-year degree programs as Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCE) and Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS). BSCE is accredited by PEC (Pakistan Engineering Council) and BSCS is accredited by NCEAC (National Computing Education Accreditation Council). KICSIT is ideally located in an exclusively peaceful and secure environment. The Institute does have an elite faculty with foreign-qualified PhDs and MS degree-holders having decades of practical industrial experience, KICSIT is housed in its own purposefully-built air-conditioned campus. In view of its increasing students strength and scope, the New Campus of KICSIT has been developed next to the lush green and scenic hills of Kahuta. This is on main Rawalpindi-Kahuta Road and covers an area of above 100 Kanals. Though KICSIT is a small-size institute, yet by grace of Almighty it has a shining record in terms of students and alumni. A large number of alumni have joined Strategic Organizations, Armed Forces and Multinational Companies. In higher education, many studied and got degrees from US, UK and other Foreign Universities. Also, KICSIT students have been competing well in the inter-university competitions and have won many awards in sofrware, hardware and extra carrucullar areas, showing a nice grooming level prevalent here. Thus, overall it is expected that our students find their stay at KICSIT a memorable and fruitful time period of their lives.
Final Result- MSCS-1
Final Result- BSCS-6
Final Result- BSCE-3
Final Result- BSCS-6
Final Result- BSCS-5
Final Result- BSCE-7
Final Result- MSCS-4
Final Result- BSCS-4
Final Result BSCS-3
Final Result- BSCS-4
Final Result- BSCE-7
Final Result- MSCS-1
Final Result- MSCS-2
Final Result- MSCS-4
Final Result- BSCE-5
Final Result BSCS-2
Final Result- BSCS-7
Final Result- BSCE-1
Final Result BSCS-2
Final Result BSCS-3
Final Result- BSCS-5
Final Result BSCS-1
Final Result BSCS-1
Final Result- BSCS-7
Final Result- MSCS-3
Final Result- BSCS-8
Final Result- MSCS-2
Final Result- BSCS-Post 8
Final Result- MSCS-3
Final Result- BSCE-5
Final Result- BSCE-3
Final Result- BSCS-Post 8
NOC from HEC for MS Computer Science Program
Final Result- BSCS-8
Final Result- BSCE-1
KICSIT provides congenial and disciplined environment with well equipped class rooms and laboratories. Sufficient number of PCs is available in computer labs. Electronics and Physics labs have equipment needed for required experiments and training. There is common room for girls students. Transport Facility is available for students, coming from Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Humak and Kahuta and back on payment of Rs. 5000, Rs.5000, Rs. 3000 and Rs. 2000 respectively per student per semester. Students are picked from specified stops on the specific routs The Institute houses a purposeful cafeteria that caters the needs of students. The cafeteria committee ensures that the food items served at cafeteria are fresh, have variety and are economical. The institute holds a library to provide knowledge and information to the students. The library contains text books, reference books, and periodicals. KICSIT Library has two sections: In Reference section each student can be issued two books at a time. Each book is issued for two weeks. After two weeks, if necessary a book can be reissued for further two weeks. If a book losts, borrower returns the new one or pays the double cost of the book. While in Book Bank, books are issued for a semester in lieu of security which is refundable at the return of semester books. In every semester a book fair is being arranged by KICSIT library. Students can purchase books in book fair on discounted rates. KICSIT Library also contains Newspapers (Daily Times, Daily Dawn, Daily Jang, Daily Express), Different types of Magazines mostly related to Information Technology and Journals about IEEE Transaction and Research and Practice in IT. KICSIT has established a skills development centre to impart training in various application software areas. KICSIT organizes different short courses in technical and non-technical subjects. Skills development centre also conducts short term training on computer literacy and tools. New infrastructure for academic and administration blocks are being constructed at Y-Cross, at the outskirts of KRL premises covering an area of 185 kanals of land. New construction will be completed in next two years. Addition of these blocks will enable KICSIT to run more new disciplines in other different fields.
PhD , University Teknologi PETRONAS, Malaysia MS Electrical Enginnering , UET Peshawar PhD, Computer Engineering , NUST, Rawalpindi. MSc Wireless Sensors and Embedded Systems with Distinction, University of Bradford, UK MS Electrical Engineering (Specialization in Electronics and Control) , NUST, Islamabad. PhD Electrical Engineering (In progress) , UET, Taxila Ph.D (Embedded System) , COMSATS University Islamabad MS Electrical Engineering , COMSATS Islamabad. PhD (In progress) Computer Engineering , NUST MS Mechatronics Engineering , NUST, Islamabad PhD Computer Engineering [In Progress] , UET Taxila, Rawalpindi MS Circuit & Systems , NWPU, XION, China BSCE , KICSIT, Kahuta. MS Electrical Engineering (In progress) , Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad. MS Computer Science[In Progress] , KICSIT, Kahuta. MS Electrical Engineering (In progress) , CASE, Islamabad. MS Mathematics , COMSATS University Islamabad MS English Linguistics (In Progress) , Abasyn University Islamabad MS Electronics Engineering , SSUET Karachi
PhD , University Teknologi PETRONAS, Malaysia PhD Computer Science , CUST, Islamabad, Pakistan (HEC Approved PhD Supervisor) MS Software Engineering , Iqra University, Islamabad. MS (Computer Engineering) , CASE, Islamabad. PhD Computer Sciences (in Progress) , IIUI, Islamabad MS (Computer Engineering) , CUST, Islamabad. MS(Computer Software Engineering) , National University of Sciences & Technology, Islamabad. PhD (Computer Science) , University Paul Sabatier, Toulouse, France PhD (Computer Science) , COMSATS University Islamabad (HEC Approved PhD Supervisor) PhD (Software Engineering) In progress , National University of Modern Languages, Islamabad MS (Computer Science) , Arid Agricultural University, Rawalpindi PhD Computer Science , COMSATS University Islamabad PhD Computer Science , PIEAS Islamabad MS(CSE) , EME College NUST, Rawalpindi. , NUST MS(IT) , SEECS NUST, Islamabad MS(CS) , UET taxila, Rawalpindi MS Information Security , NUST (SEECS) , Islamabad. MS (CS) , FAST NU Islamabad PhD(CS) In progress, , FAST NUCES Cfd Campus MS (CS) , Abasyn, Islambad BSCS , Federal Urdu University Islamabad MS Computer Science (In progress) , CUST, Islamabad. MCS , PMAS Arid Agricultural University, Rawalpindi BE (Information Technology) , KICSIT MS (HRM) in progress , AIOU, Islamabad M. Phil Management Sciences , Lahore LEADS University, Lahore PhD Thermal Engineering (Combustion) , University of Polytecnic Catalonia (UPC) Barcelona, Spain. PhD Finance , MAJU, Islamabad PhD in Engineering Management , MBA , Arid University, RWP MSc Statistics , PU Lahore MSSE , PMAS, RWP MS Mathematics , COMSATS University Islamabad MS English Linguistics (In Progress) , Abasyn University Islamabad MS Process Engineering , Pakistan Institute of Engineering & Applied Sciences (PIEAS), Islamabad MS (Engineering Management) , CASE MPA , Virtual University, Pakistan
Transport Charges * will be renewed annually and charged accordingly Note: As per emergence situation the fee may be revised within academic year. Fee Structure: Transport or any other charges will be charged as per approved rates of existing BS programs in KICSIT. The amount of fee and dues given in tables may be revised by the University or KICSIT authorities as and when required.
Course grades shall be awarded to the students based on their performance in a course. Grading shall be indicated by letters. There shall be 4-letter grades i.e. A, B, C &D for individual courses with 9 performance levels i.e; The grade points assigned to the letter grades shall be as under: The following guidelines for the award of Letter Grades will be followed by the course teacher in case of absolute grading and project evaluation.
Engr. Masood Khalid Director Incharge KICSIT Its my pleasure to welcome you at Dr. A. Q Khan Institute of Computer Sciences and Information Technology (KICSIT), Kahuta, a campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST), Islamabad. It has the privilege that it was inaugurated in November 2000 by Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan himself, the founder and then Chairman of KRL. KICSIT aims to offer quality education at an affordable cost. Currently, it is offering two four-year degree programs as Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCE) and Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS). BSCE is accredited by PEC (Pakistan Engineering Council) and BSCS is accredited by NCEAC (National Computing Education Accreditation Council) The BSCS program is spread over four academic years. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. The MSCS Degree program is spread over two academic years(minumum). The minimum duration for completion of Master of Science in Computer Science degree is two (02) years. The BSCE program is spread over four academic years. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. Final Result BSCS-1 Final Result BSCS-1 15-Feb-2024 Final Result BSCS-2 Final Result BSCS-2 15-Feb-2024 Final Result BSCS-3 Final Result BSCS-3 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-4 Final Result- BSCS-4 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-5 Final Result- BSCS-5 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-6 Final Result- BSCS-6 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-7 Final Result- BSCS-7 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-7 Final Result- BSCE-7 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-5 Final Result- BSCE-5 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-3 Final Result- BSCE-3 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCE-1 Final Result- BSCE-1 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-1 Final Result- MSCS-1 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-2 Final Result- MSCS-2 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-3 Final Result- MSCS-3 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- MSCS-4 Final Result- MSCS-4 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-8 Final Result- BSCS-8 15-Feb-2024 Final Result- BSCS-Post 8 Final Result- BSCS-Post 8 15-Feb-2024
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCE) Degree program is now internationally accrediated under Washington accord (Level-2). KICSIT Computer Engineering degree is now accepted worldwide under washington accord in the countries including UK, USA, Japan, Canada, Australia and New-Zealand. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. Spring Semester: Fall Semester: >Each semester comprises of sixteen weeks of teaching. Mid Semester Examination are held after eighth week. The seventeenth week shall be of preparatory holidays for End Semester Examination which shall be held in the eighteen week. The medium of instruction at KICSIT is English except for Islamic Studies. Working Days: Timings: >These timings may change as per requirement of the Institute. Each semester is followed by a few weeks inter-semester break for the preparation of semester results and for students to recreate and prepare for next semester. KICSIT is Campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST). All admissions to KICSIT are subject to approval of IST, these are finalized by issuance of Registration Numbers from University.
BSCS program is spread over four academic years. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. Spring Semester: Fall Semester: Each semester comprises of sixteen weeks of teaching. Mid Semester Examination are held after eighth week. The seventeenth week shall be of preparatory holidays for End Semester Examination which shall be held in the eighteen week. The medium of instruction at KICSIT is English except for Islamic Studies. Working Days: Timings: These timings may change as per requirement of the Institute. Each semester is followed by a few weeks inter-semester break for the preparation of semester results and for students to recreate and prepare for next semester. KICSIT is Sub Campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST). All admissions to KICSIT are subject to approval of IST, these are finalized by issuance of Registration Numbers from University.
The mission of the program is to deliver computer engineering knowledge and problem-solving skills for enabling graduates to address the societal and industrial requirements through the latest technological innovations and advancements with strong professional skills and high moral values.
Fee Structure: Transport or any other charges will be charged as per approved rates of existing BS programs in KICSIT. The amount of fee and dues given in tables may be revised by the University or KICSIT authorities as and when required.
The Masters of Sciences in Computer Science (MSCS) Degree program is spread over two academic years(minumum). The minimum duration for completion of Master of Science in Computer Science degree is two (02) years. As per HEC guidelines, the Department of Computer Science, allows a maximum period of four (04) years to complete Master of Science in Computer Science degree requirements. Each academic year consists of two regular teaching semesters i.e. Fall and Spring semesters. Spring Semester: Fall Semester: Each semester comprises of sixteen weeks of teaching. The medium of instruction at KICSIT is English. Working Days: Timings: These timings may change as per requirement of the Institute. Each semester is followed by a few weeks inter-semester break for the preparation of semester results and for students to recreate and prepare for next semester. KICSIT is a Campus of Institute of Space Technology (IST). All admissions to KICSIT are subject to the approval of IST, these are finalized by issuance of Registration Numbers from University. A candidate seeking admission in MSCS Program should fulfill the following requirements: A student selected for admission having deficiency in the above stated courses may be required to study a maximum of FOUR courses, which must be passed in the first two semesters. Deficiency courses shall be determined by the Graduate Coordinator of Department of Computer Science (KICSIT), before admitting the student. The deficiency credit hours will not be counted towards the minimum credit hours requirement for the award of Master of Science in Computer Science. To become eligible for award of Master of Science in Computer Science degree, a student must satisfy the following requirements: Admission shall be granted absolutely on merit which will be determined on the basis of marks obtained in the following examinations, and according to the weightage mentioned against the respective examination: *These applicants can apply for non-engineering programs only Notes:
To become eligible for award of Master of Science in Computer Science degree, a student must satisfy the following requirements: Minimum Number of Semesters 4 Semester I: (9 Credit Hours) Semester II: (9 Credit Hours) Semester III: (6 Credit Hours) Semester IV: (6 Credit Hours) “Research Methodology” (01 non-credit) course will be offered in first two semesters. Total Credit Hours of Master of Science in Computer Science – 30 Credits Registration in “MS Thesis -1” is allowed provided the student has (At least 04 core courses must be taken as per HEC 2017 Revised Curriculum) Below are proposed elective courses but it does not restrict below list, it may be gone beyond this list. At least 04 elective courses must be taken as per HEC 2017 Revised Curriculum.
The Institution of Engineers Pakistan, Rawalpindi-Islamabad Centre held an award ceremony for the best final year engineering projects for engineering universities and colleges of twin cities to acknowledge the efforts of student engineers. KICSIT Team Received IEP 2022 award
Delivered by Direct I/C KICSIT, Dr. Salman Iqbal at KRL Marriage Hall.
KTECH is In-House competitions of KICSIT. KTECH comprise twenty four different technical and co-curricular competitions. The Fourth chapter of KTECH is conducted on 10th to 14th January 2022.
A talk is delivered by Dr. Qaisar Ahsan, DG AITEC to motivate the students regarding future of AI field and applications.
A talk is delivered by Dr. Qaisar Ahsan, DG AITEC to motivate the students regarding future of AI field and applications.
In the series of training sessions for faculty at KICSIT, Mr. Muhammad Asjad Saleem (Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Deptt. , UET Taxila) presented a very useful training session on the topic of Outcome Based Education(OBE). In his presentation, he discussed multiple OBE implementation strategies. Attendees find this one very helpful and showed very good response.
Team participated and showcased the products related to Avionics (UAV and Drones)
The Institution of Engineers Pakistan, Rawalpindi-Islamabad Centre held an award ceremony for the best final year engineering projects for engineering universities and colleges of twin cities to acknowledge the efforts of student engineers. KICSIT Team Received IEP 2022 award
ISO 9001:2015 Certification visit held on 26th August 2022
In the series of training sessions for faculty at KICSIT, Mr. Muhammad Asjad Saleem (Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Deptt. , UET Taxila) presented a very useful training session on the topic of Outcome Based Education(OBE). In his presentation, he discussed multiple OBE implementation strategies. Attendees find this one very helpful and showed very good response.
DG AITeC and DG KICSIT Signed MoU on Industrial Liaison Collaboration and Student Placement
ISO 9001:2015 Certification visit held on 26th August 2022
19th Convocation has been held on 6th January 2022 at Jinnah Jinnah Convention Centre Islamabad. BSCS and BSCE graduated of KICSIT got the degrees and position holders of each program have been awarded with the Gold, Silver and Bronze medals.
Team participated and showcased the products related to Avionics (UAV and Drones)
KICSIT Students participated in HITEC Olympiad 2022. Students participated in technical and non-technical competitions.
Delivered by Direct I/C KICSIT, Dr. Salman Iqbal at KRL Marriage Hall.
KTECH is In-House competitions of KICSIT. KTECH comprise twenty four different technical and co-curricular competitions. The Fourth chapter of KTECH is conducted on 10th to 14th January 2022.
KICSIT Students participated in HITEC Olympiad 2022. Students participated in technical and non-technical competitions.
19th Convocation has been held on 6th January 2022 at Jinnah Jinnah Convention Centre Islamabad. BSCS and BSCE graduated of KICSIT got the degrees and position holders of each program have been awarded with the Gold, Silver and Bronze medals.
DG AITeC and DG KICSIT Signed MoU on Industrial Liaison Collaboration and Student Placement
ORIC is Higher Education Commission (HEC) strategic initiative to promote high quality research activities and link research activities to academia as well as Industry. ORIC-KICSIT was established in May 2018, ORIC has mandate to enhance and promote the environment of research at KICSIT. Academia-Industry Linkage setup under ORIC was Established in June 2020. We became part of & Business Incubation Center (BIC) of Institute of Space Technology (IST) in March 2021. ORIC-KICSIT have two working domains. Envision to promote, integrate research & innovation activities at KICSIT Total 50+ Publications in last three years. Prominent researchers are Dr. Saif ul Islam, Dr. Sakeena Javaid, Dr. Syed Nasir Mehmood Shah, Dr. Altaf Hussain and Dr. Usman Ali Gulzari. In undergraduate programs we’ve won IGNITE (National Technology Fund) research grants for the five students final year projects amount rupees 114000 PKR in 2021. Faculty from both department submitted proposals in NRPU (National Research Program for Universities – HEC). Under ORIC two Research Labs/Centers were established. Currently we have a research Labs With the inauguration of new academic block we’ve plan for a dedicated research centers facility in Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security domains. Cyber Security Research Center was established in November 2019 by Ex-Member Science – Headed by Manager ORIC. AI Research Center was established in December 2020 on approval of management – Headed by Dr. Saif ul Islam. Research and development activities related to the emerging field of Cyber Security & Artificial Intelligence particularly for host Organization and generic applications as well. These centers facilitate students and faculty for learning and experimenting the AI-based technology. We’ve completed 10+ industrial projects in CS and 15+ Projects in AI research centers in past two years. For the first time we participated and showcased the Artificial Intelligence based industrial final year projects at First National Artificial Intelligence Forum NAIF - SINOPAK Haripur. Only 25 projects were selected for display out of 250+ Projects from 60+ universities across Pakistan. Our Projects reached the final round of Lab2Market event and that’s a great achievement for KICSIT. ORIC office also conduct regularly the Trainings, Workshops, and Seminars & Webinars for students on campus. ORIC is also responsible for Industrial Visits of students and faculty consultancy opportunities. Industrial Advisors visited the projects EXPO was held on 22nd September, 2021. Industrial advisors appreciated the efforts of students and gave valuable suggestions. DG electronics suggested that these projects with slight improvements and investment can be applied in host organization and industry. Industrial advisors recommended that in future R&D budget for such projects is mandatory for prototype/product development. Academia-Industrial linkage setup id working in collaboration with National AITeC for the two projects started in spring 2022. Expo is also planned in 2022 for the top management
Ability to solve real-world engineering problems by using their knowledge and skills in various fields of computer engineering and its associated disciplines. Ability to work as an individual and in a team with ethical and social responsibilities. Ability to adapt to emerging fields through continuous professional advancement and learning.
An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. An ability to identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences. An ability to design solutions for complex engineering problems and design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. An ability to investigate complex engineering problems in a methodical way including literature survey, design and conduct of experiments, analysis and interpretation of experimental data, and synthesis of information to derive valid conclusions. An ability to create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modeling, to complex engineering activities, with an understanding of the limitations. An ability to apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solution to complex engineering problems. An ability to understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate knowledge of and need for sustainable development. Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of engineering practice. An ability to work effectively, as an individual or in a team, on multifaceted and /or multidisciplinary settings. An ability to communicate effectively, orally as well as in writing, on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. An ability to demonstrate management skills and apply engineering principles to one’s own work, as a member and/or leader in a team, to manage projects in a multidisciplinary environment. An ability to recognize importance of, and pursue lifelong learning in the broader context of innovation and technological developments.
Total Credit Hours 136 Minimum Number of Semesters 8 Semester I: (16 Credit Hours) Semester II: (18 Credit Hours) Semester III: (17 Credit Hours) Semester IV: (18 Credit Hours) Semester V: (17 Credit Hours) Semester VI: (18 Credit Hours) Semester VII: (16 Credit Hours) Semester VIII: (16 Credit Hours) List of Electives for BS/BSc/BE COMPUTER (SYSTEMS) ENGINEERING PROGRAM -CSE Depth Electives- Multi-Disciplinary Engineering Electives (MDEE) (Both 2+1 or 3+0 can be opted) Management Science Electives Humanities (Social Science) Electives
Areas Covered in BS programs Minimum Number of Semesters 8 Semester I: (16 Credit Hours) Semester II: (17 Credit Hours) Semester III: (17 Credit Hours) Semester IV: (16 Credit Hours) Semester V: (16 Credit Hours) Semester VI: (17 Credit Hours) Semester VII: (17 Credit Hours) Semester VIII: (14 Credit Hours) Computer Science SUPPORTING courses University Elective Courses (Not limited to the list below, University may add more courses) Management Related Social Science Related Economy Related Computer Science ELECTIVE courses (Not limited to the list below, University may add more courses)
Every year KICSIT provides scholarships exceeding worth Rs. 2.0 Millions to the talented and needy students. The number of scholarships KICSIT provides, exceeds the percentage requirement of scholarships set by HEC. . Merit Award for Students (1st To 8th Semesters) Merit Award is given on the basis of excellent academic performance to Students from 1st To 8th Semesters. The top three position-holders in each semester are given this award worth 50%, 37.5%, & 25% of tuition fee (of KRL Wards) waivers respectively. To qualify for this award students should have earned SGPA of 3.0 or above for semester II to VII and 70% marks or above in Intermediate result for first semester. In case of equal SGPAs, positions are given on the basis of higher percentage. This award is not dependent on any other scholarship. Need Based Scholarships KICSIT provides financial support to talented needy students in the form KICSIT Need Based Scholarships. This scholarship is open for all onboard students and they can be from any fee category. The applicant should have obtained SGPA of 3.00 or above (70% or above in FSc for first year students).The applicant should submit application form along with all relevant documents. at the start of the semester after final result notification from KICSIT CoE office. Scholarships will be awarded for only one semester but can be re-availed in subsequent semesters, if the need prevails and for this student will have to put up fresh application. A student can avail only one scholarship at a time except Merit Award. Decision for the award of scholarships and amounts will be made on case to case basis as recommended by Scholarship Committee and approved by Director General KICSIT. HEC Ehsas Undergraduate Scholarship The Ehsas Undergraduate Scholarship Project focuses on the most critical segment, namely the 4-5year undergraduate programs, which contributes the most to income of the individual who completes the bachelor’s degree. It is one of the sizeable project funding under Government of Pakistan's Ehsaas social safety net program which aims to provide 50,000 undergraduate scholarships with an average budget of Rs.6 billion annually. Over a period of next four to five years these scholarships will be increased to around 200,000. Scholarship covers university tuition fee and stipend throughout four-five years of degree duration. It is a significant step to ensure affordable higher education in all major fields of education including agriculture, arts and humanities, business education, engineering, medical, physical sciences, and social sciences. The project aims to support female education therefore 50% of scholarships are reserved for the female students in the overall Project's target. Scholarships are offered for the newly admitted students Admissions secured on merit only. Merit means that the student has fulfilled the admission criteria of the institution in which he/she intends to study. Degree programs allowed by the HEC. Age limit set by institution's regulations, i.e., the maximum age of the eligibility for the scholarship is the same as the maximum age for applying for admission in undergraduate programs at the HEI. Interest free loans are also provided to IST students by National Bank of Pakistan (NBP). The process to apply for loan and other details are available at
Vision of the Institute Be a National torchbearer, in the realm of academics, through quality teaching, robust research and outreach – to produce leaders in the field of Space Science and Technology, in line with National aspirations. Mission of the Institute
View Notification Micro Enterprise Development Program Business Plan Competition 2024 (Register Now) Register for the 8th webinar on climate resilience in Pakistan Climate Change Workshop series at the Main and Sub-campuses of KIU 4 days ago 2 weeks ago 2 months ago 2 months ago 3 months ago
kpbte.edu.pk@gmail.com 091-9217410 Fell free to contact us and we will get back to you as soon as possible To elevate the standards of skilled Manpower for competing in Global Market, which inturn boost the economic graph of the country, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Board of Technical & Commerce Education should play its role by making the evaluation system efficient and transparent. For quick response and relevant information, the KP BT&CE website would play vital role for all stakeholders. As a successor to the West Pakistan Board of Technical Education Lahore, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Board of Technical & Commerce Education (KP BT&CE) was established in March 1973 under the North West Frontier Province Board of Technical Education ACT 1972. The functions entrusted to the Board are to organize, regulate and supervise Technical, Commercial and Vocational Education below degree level, in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Fell free to contact us and we will get back to you as soon as possible
Federal Minister Federal Secretary Ministry of Professional and Technical Training was established in July 2011 in the wake of 18th Amendment. Some of the Departments/Organizations previously under MOLM and MOE were placed under this Ministry. Supreme Court of Pakistan in its Judgment dated 25th November, 2011 directed that in view of insertion of Article 25-A in the Constitution, the Federal Government cannot absolve itself from the responsibility of providing Education to its citizens. Skills Development & Tech-Led Employability... Digital Innovation in Education Pakistan Education Policy 2021 Directorate General of Religious Education (DGRE) Adult Literacy STEAM PAKISTAN
کسی بھی تاریخ کا انتخاب کریں
| When I have a little money, I buy books; and if I have any left, I buy food and clothes. Call: 051-9261533 Info: Books: Online: Copyright © 2021 National Book Foundation. All rights reserved.
Auditors Deloitte Yousaf Adil Chartered Accountants Grant Thornton Anjum Rahman Chartered Accountants A.F. Ferguson & Co. Chartered Accountants BDO Ebrahim & Co. Chartered Accountants
Mr. Ashraf Mahmood Wathra Chairman Mr. Rehmat Ali Hasnie President & Chief Executive Officer Mr. Farid Malik, CFA Director Mr. Ahsan Ali Chughtai Director Mr. Ali Syed Director Mr. Amjad Mahmood Director Mr. Nasim Ahmad Director
Rehmat Ali Hasnie President & Chief Executive Officer Umer Anwar SEVP and Group Chief, Audit & Inspection Group Haroon Zamir Khan SEVP & Group Chief/Chief Risk Officer, Risk Management Group
We are a leading commercial bank established on November 8, 1949 under the National Bank of Pakistan Ordinance 1949. While we have been entrusted to act as trustee of public funds and as the agent to the State Bank of Pakistan*, over the years we have redefined our role into a modern growth oriented commercial bank by expanding our network across continents and by capturing largest market shares in the debt equity market, corporate investment banking, retail and consumer banking, agricultural financing and treasury services in Pakistan. Together, with our local and foreign subsidiaries, we provide commercial banking services including Corporate Loans, Asset Management, Leasing, Forex, Modarba, Global Remittances, Underwriting, Broking, Agency, Investment Advisory and such other services. The Bank's services are available to individuals, corporate entities and the government. We strive in promoting financial inclusion of unbanked masses in the Country, creating equal employment opportunities, identifying & delivering our responsibility as a corporate citizen. (*in places where SBP does not have presence). Regions We Operate: Counties of Business: 19 Foreign Branches / Offices: 34 Pakistan Branches: 1,450+
National bank treasury is currently regarded as a market leader in both foreign exchange and rupee denominated products because of it’s emphasis on service quality. We offer NBP Rate Sheets Market Research and Feedback
Personal Loan • Permanent Employee can avail financing upto Rs. 3 million against your salary. However, Contractual employee can avail upto Rs. 2 million. • Lowest Mark-up Rate • Easy installments of upto 48 months at your choice. • Quick processing and fast disbursement. • No minimum income, colleteral & insurance charges required • For permanent/contractual employees of Government, Semi Government and autonomous bodies receiving salaries through NBP.
NBP maintains its position as Pakistan's Premier Bank with a network of over 1450+ domestic branches , 21 international branches, 2 international Subsidiaries and 3 international Representative Offices. The Bank also has presence in the UK through United National Bank Ltd (UNBL), a banking institution incorporated in the UK and authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). UNBL has six branches located in Central London, Ilford, Bradford, Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow. UNBL was formed in 2001 as a Joint Venture between NBP and UBL through merger of the UK branches of United Bank Limited and National Bank of Pakistan, who had been operating in the UK since the mid-1960s. The principal activities of UNBL are to provide retail banking products through its branch network and Agents in major cities in the UK; wholesale banking, treasury and money transmission services to Financial Institutions, and trade finance facilities to businesses of all sizes. NBP currently employs more than 15,000 people worldwide. The various departments of the bank include: Consumer Banking, Corporate Finance, Investment Banking, Agricultural Banking, Transactional Banking, Operations, Software Development and Automation, Financial Control, Treasury, Internal Audit, Risk Management & Credit, Economic & Business Research, Training & Development, Strategic Planning and Human Resources. NBP offers unlimited opportunities to its employees for continuous personal and professional growth: 1) Change Management Program: NBP has started an ambitious Change Management Program to further train its employees to meet the challenges of present day requirements. 2) Training of new staff: Training and development are the core issues of HR, which will ultimately improve our customer service and help us attain the standard of a progressive bank. • Team players with excellent interpersonal skills • Knowledge and use of information technology • Strong analytical and problem solving skills • Excellent written and verbal communication skills in English If you believe you possess all these qualities and are ambitious for a better future, send us your resume, along with a brief cover letter, at Human Resource Management Department National Bank of Pakistan Head Office NBP Building, I.I. Chundrigar Road Karachi, Pakistan. Tel: +92 (21) 9921 2215 Fax: +92 (21) 9921 2263
Phone: +92 -21- 99220100 (30 lines) Phone: +92 -21- 99062000 (60 lines) SECP Investor Complaint Section http://www.secp.gov.pk/ComplainForm1.asp
The National Bank is the largest commercial bank of Pakistan and CSR is an integral part of NBP's corporate policy. It has institutionalized by creating a separate Division and running a full-fledged CSR Program to bring positive change and improving quality of life of underprivileged members of our society. The Prime area of focus for CSR initiatives are Education, Health, Woman & Child, Special Persons, Culture & relief for affectees of natural disasters. NBP has contributed in the 'Health' sector by providing financial and Equipment support to MALC Leprosy Centre, SIUT, Noor Hospital Chakwal, Ghulab Devi, Lady Willington, and Ganga Ram & Bolan Medical Hospitals. Bank also organizes Medical & Eye camps countrywide for free treatment of Underprivileged patients. NBP has recently adopted 05 outpatient Clinics at National Epilepsy center located in Karachi within the boundaries of Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre where free of cost treatment is provided to Epilepsy Patients. In 'Education' sector, NBP is working on a major project aimed at expediting and facilitating socio-economic development through the spread of knowledge and skills at the grassroots level. Bank is supporting financially to "The HUB", "KSBL", "IBA", Taaleem Foundation school in Baluchistan, TCF School at Nawabshah and Children Care Foundation Lahore. Under NBP Scholarship Program more than 100 students belongs to Hunar Foundation, IBA Sukkur, PAF Sargodhian Sprit Trust and Academy INFAQ Foundation and Children Care Foundation Lahore are getting financial assistance. At provincial level Bank runs school & college Volunteer Training program (MOVE) in collaboration with FESF (Family Educational, and Service Foundation). Bank Sponsored Cultural events like All Pakistan Folk singing Mela at Faisalabad and Aalmi Mushaira at Arts Council Karachi. NBP pays special attentions to Special person and distributed more than 600 Wheel Chairs, White Canes, and organize sporting activities at National Level. Bank initiated project "Empowered Women and Empowered Pakistan" vocational training to help needy and poor women especially women of rural back grounds. This project open and conclude in 2 centers of each province of Pakistan. Awards and Achievements: Contact Information: Mirza Babur Baig EVP & Divisional Head â€“ CSR & SD Division Inclusive Development Group Tel: 021 â€“ 99220622 Email: Sabeen Gul Wing Head â€“ CSR & SD Division Inclusive Development Group Tel: 021-99220135 Email:
Dear Customers, Beware! Criminals can misuse the Coronavirus (Covid-19) emergency for frauds. Fake emails and telephone calls are being received by the public to steal their money from bank accounts through frauds. Keep yourself aware on this matter and follow these instructions.
This website and all its contents are being displayed and are made public without any risk or/and liability or/and cost of NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN or/and any or its employees and is subject to change at the bank's sole discretion without prejudice to the rights of the bank.
At NBP we always value your suggestion/ feedback and complaint. NBP aims to achieve excellence by providing premier customer service. However, possibility exists that you may like to put forward a suggestion or lodge a complaint. In such situation you are requested to use any of the following channels to lodge a complaint/feedback. To lodge Complaint, Suggestion/Query or Feedback on complaints processing mechanism forms are available at the branches counter or can be Downloaded from below links. Drop your Suggestion/ Feedback or Complaint in complaint box available in branches/ ATM Booths or write to us at Complaint Management Wing For online registration of complaints/Suggestion/ Feedback use below links. Note: Please contact 24/7 NBP Helpline Number +92-21-111-627-627 for Immediate Blocking of ATM/ Debit Card. You can also block your ATM Card through Mobile Application for details visit . Please Fax your complaint on +92-21-99220045 Click here Click here SBP has launched a Customer Complaint Management Service (Portal & Mobile App) namely “Sunwai” with an aim to facilitate customers in lodgment of complaints with the Banks in Pakistan. “Sunwai” can be accessed at Contact details of SBP Consumer Protection Department is as follow: State Bank of Pakistan: Mailing address: The Director Consumer Protection Department. 5th floor, SBP Main Building State Bank of Pakistan I.I. Chundrigar Road, Karachi Email: Website: UAN No: 111-727-273 Further, if you are not satisfied with our response to your complaint, you can also approach following alternate forum to lodge complaint. Banking Mohtasib Pakistan Secretariat: Mailing address: 5th Floor, Shaheen Complex, M R Kiyani Road, Karachi Telephone: +9221 – 99217334-39 Facsimile: +9221 - 99217375 Email: Website:
NBP may use “cookies” to track Users activity and usage of our Web site.
Pakistan Bank Association (PBA) Paksitan Institute of Corporate Governance Institute of Bankers Pakistan (IBP) Last date of Website Update: NBP website is updated on daily basis in business working days
United National Bank Ltd (UNBL) is a banking institution incorporated in the UK and authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). UNBL has six branches located in Central London, Ilford, Bradford, Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow. UNBL was formed in 2001 as a Joint Venture between NBP and UBL through merger of the UK branches of United Bank Limited and National Bank of Pakistan, who had been operating in the UK since the mid-1960s. The principal activities of UNBL are to provide retail banking products through its branch network and Agents in major cities in the UK; wholesale banking, treasury and money transmission services to Financial Institutions, and trade finance facilities to businesses of all sizes. NBP Subsidiary Bank in Kazakhstan Building No. 27A, Nauryzbay Street, 040900 Kaskelen, Karassy Region, Almaty Oblast, Kazakhstan CJSC NBP Pakistan Subsidiary Bank in Tajikistan Business Centre, "Sozidanie" Ayni Avenue-48, 734024 Dushanbe, Tajikistan NBP Exchange Company Ltd. Ground Floor , Shaheen Complex M.R. Kayani Road Karachi . Pakistan NBP Capital Limited NBP Modarba ManagementCompany Limited Taurus Securities Limited Suit # 604 6 th Floor Progressive Plaza, Beaumont Road Civil lines Karachi . Pakistan Cast – N- Link Products Ltd. NBP Fund Management Limited (‘NBP Funds’) 7th Floor Clifton Diamond Building, Block No. 4, Scheme No. 5, Clifton Karachi, Pakistan.
Our Vision To be the catalyst of change and developing the best leaders and banking professionals for organizational effectiveness. Our Mission We shall transform our human capital with utmost professionalism for leadership roles responsive towards contemporary banking environment and future challenges. Core Values Training Units Jamil Nishtar Management Development Centre JNMDC 6th Floor FTC Building Tower B, Shahrah-e-Faisal Karachi Ph # 021-99225674 Fax# 021-99225675 Staff College, Karachi 6th Floor FTC Building Tower B Shahrah-e-Faisal Karachi Ph # 021-99225678 Fax# 021-9922579 Staff College, Lahore NBP Staff College 26 Maclagon road RHQ Building Lahore Ph # 042-99211236 Fax# 021-99211203 Staff College, Islamabad NBP Staff College RHQ Building G-5 Islamabad Ph # 051-99244939 Fax# 051-99244940 Staff College, Peshawar NBP Staff College Phase V Hayatabad Peshawar Ph # 091-9217115 Fax# 091-9217117
National Aptitude Test (NAT) is for admissions in NTS™ associated universities / DAIs (degree awarding institutes). The candidates will appear in a single test only and will stand eligible for admission to all universities in the respective subject group. The candidates will be required to apply for admission in the universities as per their respective announcements along with a copy of the NTS™ result card. * The result of the NAT test will be valid for "ONE YEAR". Dr. Douglas Trimble, Director of Assessment and Institutional Research Forman Christian College University. Comparing the NAT to the SAT (in the USA), we see that it fares very well at Forman Christian College: it correlates .36 with first year GPA (FYGPA), which is the same as the SAT (.35). Despite the lack of systematic predictive validity analysis of the NAT, it does appear to have good predictive validity. Because SAT and high school GPA correlate only .28, Korbin, Patterson, Shaw, Mattern, and Barbuti (2008) concluded that they appear to be measuring distinct aspects of academic promise and both can yield valuable information. The same appears to be the case with the NAT, which only correlates .27 with the composite BISE total; thus BISE and NAT are helpful. FYGPA is the first year grade point average after two semesters of university work. SAT™ is the combined Critical Reading, Mathematics, and Writing sections. The NAT was combined statistically with the BISE exams or A Level exam by converting them z-scores. Data from the USA was reported in Korbin, J. L., Patterson, B. F., Shaw, E. J., Mattern, K. D., & Barbuti, S. M. (2008). Validity of the SAT for predicting first-year college grade point average (Research Report No. 2008-5). New York: College Board. Retrieved May 21, 2009 from The predictive power of using the composite BISE to predict FYGPA (r = .46) is similar to the SAT™ and high school GPA (.46) to predict FYGPA. By adding the NAT and BISE Composite together to predict FYGPA, then the correlation increases to .49. The NAT likewise increases our FYGPA predictive precision when it is combined with the A Level exam results from .37 to .48. We have therefore decided to use an equally weighted combination of NAT and BISE score (or A Level marks) to make admissions decisions. Schedule of National Aptitude Test (NAT) 2024 Apply on NTS online Registration Portal Schedule 2024: District list of Pakistan: Please find your Correspondance City District from the Districts List given below and write it in the box of Correspondance City District in your NAT Registration Form. The candidate is required to register for appearing in the respective test as scheduled by NTS™. The registration process is given below: Register (one time only) to NTS online Registration Portal Upload a recent photograph in NTS online Registration Portal. -Apply for latest NAT test in the list of projects announced in NTS online Registration Portal. Download NAT bank deposit slip from NTS online Registration Portal (Bank deposit slip is available on NTS online Registration Portal only) Deposit Rs. 850/- (Rupees Eight Hundred & Fifty Only) for NAT test via 1Link 1Bill Participating Banks/ATM/Internet Banking/Mobile Banking/EasyPaisa/JazzCash/TCS Express Counters. (See bank service charges on deposit slip). * All candidates are required to provide their photographs with full face exposure. Please follow these Instructions carefully 13 compulsory test cities are in red color. Optional test cities are in black color, subject to a minimum of 100 registered fee paid candidates.
The global economic order, the rapid rate of technological advancement, the information revolution, all have opened new series of challenges as well as opportunities. The ability to innovate and the capacity to adapt to latest technologies are going to be the forte in the new century. Pakistan 's cherished vision to become super power can only be attained by its large high quality human power. The educational institutions especially those imparting technical education have to take the responsibility of developing and nurturing the world class engineers, technologists and managers. Result of DAE, DDM, Commerce, Matric Tech and Matric Vocational etc. of Second Annual Examination, 2023 have been declared. Office timings for Monday through Thursday is from 09:00PM to 05:00PM with half an hour Namaz Break at 1:00PM. On Friday, the timing is from 09:00am to 05:00pm with(12:30 to 2:00 Namaz Break) Visit of Mr. Muhammad Adnan, Secretary PBTE to Jinnah Polytechnic College, Faisalabad Heading towards ISO
Engineer Registration Portal is under maintenance (portal.pec.org.pk). All dependent services may face outages. Pakistan Engineering Council Pakistan Engineering Council During UN COP28 Climate Conference on Dec 8 2023 in DubaiInternational Code Council (ICC) honored Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) with the ICC Global Award-2023 during United Nations COP28 Climate Conference in Dubai on Friday, December 8th 2023. A four member PEC delegation led by its Chairman Engr. Muhammad Najeeb Haroon, Dr. Nasir Mahmood Khan, Registrar PEC, Prof. Dr. Sarosh Hashmat Lodi, Convener PEC Technical Committee and Mr. Faiz ul Sibtain Secretary to Committee PEC/ Focal Person to ICC participated the event. Marisa Lago, Under Secretary US Department of Commerce along with Judy Zakreski, Senior Vice Presidentof ICC Global Operations… Proposals are invited for IT equipment, office furniture, and solarization… “In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.I extend my heartfelt congratulations to Chairman, Pakistan Engineering Council Engr. Muhammad Najeeb Haroon, who is also a member of the National Assembly, for the successful launch of the Pakistan Engineer Parliamentarians Caucus. It is delighted to hear that Senator Engr. Rukhsana Zuberi has been appointed as its first Convener, having previously served as the Chairperson of the Pakistan Engineering Council. She has proven to be an exceptionally efficient and effective Senator. On this momentous occasion, I would like to extend my felicitations to all the Engineers of Pakistan and our esteemed Engineer Parliamentarians. With the establishment of this Caucus, Insha’Allah I am confident that the Parliamentarian, in collaboration with this Caucus, will play their pivotal role in shaping policies for the betterment of Pakistan and fostering the engineering profession/sector in future. Once again, I commend you on taking this excellent initiative. Thank you” My Dear Engineers,Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) is a statutory regulatory body established in 1976 under an Act of Parliament to regulate the engineering profession across the country and performing its functions as an autonomous body with the vision that the engineering profession shall function as a key driving force for achieving rapid and sustainable growth in all national, economic and social fields. In line with the vision of the Government of Pakistan, PEC is striving utmost to improve quality of engineering education, accreditation and professional system, synchronizing with best international standards and practices recognized by prestigious engineering Institutions/ Accords and Organizations. PEC has made concerted efforts for its outreach and international visibility, therefore, entered into various international Accords/ Agreements like Washington Accord (WA), International Professional Engineers Agreement (IPEA), Federation of Engineering Institutions of Asia and the Pacific (FEIAP), Federation PEC encourages engineers to actively participate in their career growth by joining CPD courses. The calendar shows list of scheduled CPD activities by PEC and authrized Professional Engineering Bodies (PEBs). Please browse the calender to view CPD activites. Clicking on any date which navigate you to the detail of clicked CPD activity. Glimpse of all the recent happenings in the environment of Pakistan Engineering Council. Pakistan Engineering Council HEAD OFFICE: Pakistan Engineering Council, Attaturk Avenue (East) G-5/2, P.O. Box: 1296, Islamabad UAN: (+92-51) 111-111-732 PABX: (+92-51) 9219500, 9206974 Regional Office, Karachi ST-14/A, Block-2, Kehkashan-V, Clifton, Karachi. Phone: (+92-21) 99250216 Regional Office, Peshawar Plot No 18-B/1, (Office Enclaves), Phase V, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Phone: (+92-91) 9217880 Regional Office, Lahore 2-3 M, Civic Center, Model Town Extension, Lahore. Map Location: F8J6+PX6 Lahore Phone: - Regional Office, Quetta Main Samungli Road (southern side), Quetta. Phone: (+92-81) 2871673 Quick Links Portals © All Rights Reserved
New! An Online Portal for our Doctors to cater their regulatory requirements so they can primarily focus of healthcare of the mankind. All Registrations, Credentialing, Verification & Licensing needs can be addressed in minutes through your Digital Platform. Faculty Registration, Accreditation of Experience, Temporary License, Duplicate License, Restoration of Deleted Basic Postgraduate Qualifications, Attestation/Verification of License or Certificate of Good Standing, Verification of CT Form OR Verification of Practical Experience/CGS(ECFMG/EPIC) An interactive portal for the Registration of NRE ,NEB & MDCAT A Single Portal for Colleges & Universities to have an effective communication with the Commission and to enable timely processing of our students and doctors registration and Licensing needs. To Register a Complaint of professional negligence/misconduct against any licensed Doctor This recognition underscores PM&DC's commitment to ensuring the highest standards of medical education within Pakistan. Search for Any Doctor in Practitioners Register by Registration Number, Full Name or Father Name to see the License Validity and Registered Qualifications. Search for Any Medical or Dental Faculty Member across Pakistan by Registration Number or Full Name. Search to Verify the Student Registration of any Pakistani Medical or Dental College student with Pakistan Medical & Dental Council by Registration Number/CNIC, Full Name or Father Name Search for Any Doctor or in Practitioners Register by Registration Number, Full Name or Father Name to see the License Validity and Registered Qualifications. Search for Any Medical or Dental Faculty Member across Pakistan by Registration Number or Full Name. Search to Verify the Student Registration of any Pakistani Medical or Dental College student with Pakistan Medical & Dental Council by Registration Number/CNIC, Full Name or Father Name
Sindh Board of Technical Education (SBTE) was established under Sindh Ordinance No. XVI of 1970 to replace the defunct West Pakistan Board of Technical Education. The Board is responsible to organize, regulate, develop and control technical, vocational, industrial and commercial education in the province of Sindh. To facilitate institutions and students from upper Sindh, a Regional Office was established at Sukkur in March, 1990. It includes regular studies having classroom lectures, workshop assignments, labs experiments, industrial projects and industrial tours. It includes regular studies having classroom lectures, workshop assignments, labs experiments, industrial projects and industrial tours. t includes regular studies having classroom lectures, workshop assignments, labs experiments, industrial projects and industrial tours. 13984761total visits,71visits today SBTE by the number 13984761total visits,71visits today
ISLAMABAD: In a historic moment for Pakistan, iCube Qamar — the country'sfirst satellite mission to the moon — has been be launched into the space today. The satellite, being carried by China's Long March-5 rocket, took off for its visit to space on board the Chang'E6 from theWenchang Space launch site in the Hainan province in China. The launch activity was telecast live on the IST website and the Chinese state television. Following the launch, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif felicitated the nation and the scientists for launching the first lunar orbit mission. In a statement, the PM said ICUBE-Q satellite is Pakistan's first step in space. The PM said Pakistani scientists, engineers and skilled workers are proving their mettle in this field like the expertise they exhibited in nuclear technology. He expressed tribute to the core committee of the Institute of Space Technology, including Dr Khurram Khurshid, all the members of the SUPARCO team and students, who participated in this project. While congratulating students and scientists on the launch, Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar said: "Today’s launch from Hainan in China, is a good example of countries and organisations coming together for space cooperation and shared benefits." Speaking with Geo News, Dr Khurshid — a member of the Core Committee at the Institute of Space Technology (IST) — said that Pakistan's satellite mission will reach the lunar orbit in five days and will circle around the moon for three to six months. He added that different pictures of the surface of the moon will be taken with the help of satellite after which Pakistan will have its own satellite images of the moon for research. The satellite has been designed and developed by the IST in collaboration with China's Shanghai University and Pakistan's national space agency SUPARCO. ICUBE-Q orbiter carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. Following successful qualification and testing, ICUBE-Q has now been integrated with the Chang’e6 mission. Chang’e6 is the sixth in a series of China’s lunar exploration missions. Chang’6, China’s Lunar Mission will touch down on the moon’s far side to collect samples from the surface and return to earth for research. The mission holds significance for Pakistan as it will also take a Pakistan CubeSat Satellite iCube-Q, developed by IST. CubeSats are miniature satellites typically characterised by their small size and standardised design. They are constructed in a cubic shape, consisting of modular components that adhere to specific size constraints. These satellites often weigh no more than a few kilogrammes and are deployed in space for various purposes. The primary purpose of CubeSats is to facilitate scientific research, technology development, and educational initiatives in space exploration.
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s historic lunar mission (ICUBE-Q) is set to be launched on Friday (May 3) on board China’s Chang’E6 from Hainan. According to the Institute of Space Technology (IST), the satellite ICUBE-Q has been designed and developed by the institute in collaboration with China’s Shanghai University SJTU and Pakistan’s national space agency Suparco. ICUBE-Q orbiter carries two optical cameras to image the lunar surface. Following successful qualification and testing, ICUBE-Q has now been integrated with the Chang’e6 mission. Chang’e6 is the sixth in a series of China’s lunar exploration missions. Chang’6, China’s Lunar Mission will touch down on the moon’s far side to collect samples from the surface and return to earth for research. The mission holds significance for Pakistan as it will also take a Pakistan CubeSat Satellite iCube-Q, developed by IST. CubeSats are miniature satellites typically characterised by their small size and standardised design. They are constructed in a cubic shape, consisting of modular components that adhere to specific size constraints. These satellites often weigh no more than a few kilograms and are deployed in space for various purposes. The primary purpose of CubeSats is to facilitate scientific research, technology development, and educational initiatives in space exploration. These satellites are utilised for a wide range of missions, including earth observations, remote sensing, atmospheric research, communications, astronomy, and technology demonstration. Due to their compact size and relatively low cost compared to traditional satellites, CubeSats offer opportunities for universities, research institutions, and commercial entities to participate in space missions and gather valuable data for scientific advancement and innovation. They serve as platforms for testing new technologies and concepts, enabling access to space for a broader range of users and promoting collaboration within the space community.
Yes, it's free. Upgrade anytime. Create better websites with mobile-responsive templates, seamless drag & drop and unlimited customization. Sell your products or services, start a blog and make smart decisions with clear analytics. Boost traffic and increase engagement with built-in SEO tools, Facebook ads, email marketing and social posts.